Link: https://www.avondale.edu.au/course/bachelor-of-nursing/

Current Students
Staff
Library
Alumni
News & Events
CURRENT STUDENTS
STAFF
LIBRARY
ALUMNI
NEWS & EVENTS
DONATE
YOUR UNI
STUDY
RESEARCH
YOUR UNI
Who We Are
Our Purpose
History
Learning & Teaching
Rankings & Achievements
Faculty & Schools
Academic Integrity
Campuses
CASTL
Venue & Facility Hire
STUDENT LIFE
Support Services
Accommodation
Spiritual Life
Student Associations
Sport & Fitness
FOLLOW US ONLINE
COURSES
Nursing
Teaching
Business
Ministry
Arts
Counselling
Lifestyle Medicine
Science & Mathematics
Postgraduate Courses
Higher Degrees by Research
Vocational Education Training
Short Courses
NEW STUDENTS
Apply Now
Pathways
Not sure what to study?
Early Entry
Fees & costs
Scholarships
International Students
Units Offered
RESEARCH AT AVONDALE
Research Integrity & Ethics
Strategy & Performance
Research Training & Support
RESEARCH CENTRES
Christian Education
Lifestyle Medicine & Health
Scripture, Spirituality & Society
PUBLICATIONS
Research Repository
Reporting Your Publications
TEACH Journal
PARTNER ENTITIES
EGW Research Centre
Adventist Heritage Centre
Australasian Research Institute
ENQUIRE NOW →
Bachelor of Nursing
Why study with us?
Students rank Avondale’s Bachelor of Nursing as number one in Australia for overall experience, learner engagement, learning resources, skills development, student support and teaching quality (The Good Universities Guide 2024).
Students can choose to study at our Sydney Campus located on the grounds of the Sydney Adventist Hospital, or the Lake Macquarie Campus, and will:
learn in state-of-the-art facilities and hospital ward-like simulation centres
gain experience in primarily local and private hospitals such as the Sydney Adventist Hospital, Newcastle Private, Wyong Hospital and Gosford Public and Private Hospitals and
learn in other healthcare settings.
On completion, students will be eligible to apply for registration as a registered nurse to provide high quality care to patients. There is significant demand for registered nurses in the health care system in public, private and community settings with employment opportunities in local, national, and international healthcare environments.
Key Information
Study Mode:
On campus
Location:
Lake Macquarie, Sydney
Duration:
Full-time: 3 years, Part-time: Equivalent years
Course Code:
4030
CRICOS Code:
057311C
APPLY NOW
Course Details
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the Bachelor of Nursing, graduates will be able to:
adapt knowledge and practice skills competently as a nurse in accordance with professional practice standards for nurses as outlined by NMBA (2016) within the diverse Australian health context;
apply primary health care principles, health promotion and education approaches to health needs of self, individuals and groups from a holistic framework;
demonstrate sensitivity to individuals and groups from various cultures and belief systems to deliver culturally competent and safe care within an Australian context;
demonstrate effective communication skills and the capacity for self-management, collaboration, team work and leadership;
maintain an environment that promotes safe practice, workplace health and safety, security and personal integrity of individuals and groups;
reflect an intellectual openness and curiosity, utilising creative and reflective thinking and clinical reasoning, to identify solutions to problems and incorporate best practice approaches in nursing practice;
base practice on a knowledge base derived from nursing and the support disciplines (biological, psycho- social science) as a basis for independent, research informed life-long learning;
display cognitive, technical and information literacy skills to identify and evaluate new knowledge and practices in nursing and judge the suitability of adaptation to different contexts of practice.
Admission Criteria
There are many options for satisfying the entry requirements for our courses. An applicant needs to meet at least one of the following entry requirements to be given an offer to study at Avondale.
I have completed my secondary education in Australia or New Zealand and achieved:
a selection rank of at least 63. A selection rank is calculated as the ATAR plus any
adjustment factors
that may be applicable;
or
a minimum of 24 points in the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma;
or
New Zealand Year 13 NCEA Level 3 results, identifying university entrance attainment;
or
an appropriate score in the
uniTEST and the Tertiary Online Written Assessment
;
or
an appropriate score in the
Skills for Tertiary Admissions Test (STAT)
*
or
the International Big Picture Learning Credential.
*Applicants must not be a current year 12 (or equivalent) student and must be 18 years or older at the time of commencing their course.
I have completed a Vocational education and training (VET) course in Australia or New Zealand and achieved:
an Australian Certificate IV or higher,
or
an equivalent New Zealand certificate, as approved by the Director, Student Administration Services.
I have already attended university in Australia or New Zealand and:
successfully completed at least 2 units of a Bachelor’s degree
or
completed a bridging or enabling course, or another recognised tertiary preparation course;
or
successfully completed at least three units of Avondale’s Undergraduate Certificate in University Preparation.
I have completed my secondary education or higher education qualification overseas:
refer to the
Admission Policy (HE)
for specific information regarding both the minimum academic entry standards (Appendix 1) and the English language proficiency requirements (Appendix 2).
I have other work and life experience:
If a Senior Secondary Certificate has not been completed, an eligible applicant may sit an admission test (
uniTEST and TOWA or the Skills for Tertiary Admission Test
).
In exceptional circumstances, an applicant may be admitted based on equivalent qualifications or work and life experience as assessed by the Course Convenor or delegate and/or the DVC Academic.
This course has additional entry requirements which are listed below.
Completion and agreement of the
Inherent Requirements and English Language Skills Acknowledgement.
International Students
This course is available to international students who meet the Australian government requirements for a student visa to reside in Australia for the duration of the course. For information regarding visas refer to
https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/study
.
English Language Requirements
applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate English language proficiency through one of the following:
achieving a minimum overall IELTS score of 7.0, with no sub-band below 7.0,
or
one of the other ways outlined in Appendix 2 of the
Admission Policy (HE)
.
Advanced Standing
Applicants who have completed prior study may be eligible for advanced standing (credit recognition). Applicants with a Diploma of Nursing completed within the last five years through a Nursing and Midwifery Board of Australia approved program of study may qualify for up to 8 units of credit or the first year of the course. Applicants should discuss their eligibility for advanced standing with the Admissions Team or the Course Convenor.
Course Structure
The Bachelor of Nursing consists of 24 units and requires 144 credit points for completion. The course is studied over six semesters full time (or part time equivalent) and includes a minimum of 800 hours of professional experience.
The course includes study in numerous general and specialty nursing areas such as acute care (medical or surgical), high dependency areas (emergency, intensive care), maternal and child health, mental health, community, and aged care. Related material from the physical, biological, and behavioural sciences is also integrated into the course to present a holistic perspective of nursing.
The course structure for full time students is provided below.
Unit Code
Course level
Unit Name
Year 1 - Semester 1
Level 1
NURS11101
Nursing Practice 1
NURS11103
Nursing Foundations
NURS11105
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health
NUSC11107
Applied Nursing Science 1
Year 1 - Semester 2
Level 2
NURS11102
Nursing Practice 2
NURS11104
Spiritual and Cultural Care in Nursing
NURS11106
Mental Health Nursing Foundations
NUSC11108
Applied Nursing Science 2
Year 2 - Semester 1
Level 3
NURS22201
Evidence Based Nursing
NURS22203
Nursing Practice 3
NURS22205
Nursing the Older Person
NURS22207
Mental Health Nursing Practice
Year 2 - Semester 2
Level 4
NURS22202
Promoting Health and Wellness
NURS22204
Nursing Practice 4
NURS22206
Family Health Nursing
NURS22208
Community Nursing Care
Year 3 - Semester 1
Level 5
NURS33301
Professional Roles in Nursing
NURS33303
Clinical Nursing Elective
NURS33305
Nursing Practice 5
NURS33307
Nursing Care for Chronic Illness
Year 3 - Semester 2
Level 6
NURS33302
Ethics and Leadership in Nursing
NURS33304
Emerging Healthcare Trends
NURS33306
Nursing Practice 6
NURS33308
Transition to Professional Practice
To view unit information, note the unit code and search for the unit in
Unit Outlines
.
Practical Experience
Clinical placements commence in Semester two for full time first-year Bachelor of Nursing students, provided students complete the pre-requisite Level 1 units and meet pre-clinical requirements. All clinical placements are mandatory, with 100% attendance required. The content of each clinical unit is related to the areas being studied in corresponding theoretical units. Clinical placements are organised for students and provided in cooperation with the Sydney Adventist Hospital, and many other placements available in local and regional hospitals, specialist mental health facilities, paediatric units, and at aged care and community facilities.
Students are expected to attend clinical placements on rotating shifts (morning, afternoon, and night) and travel to and from placement sites. Most clinical placement sites are within Sydney, Central Coast and Hunter New England areas. In addition, students may have the opportunity to attend a rural or remote placement.
Clinical placements are of two to four weeks duration, with the course requiring the completion of a total of 800 hours of placement throughout the degree.
The following units include clinical placements:
NURS11102 Nursing Practice 2 - 80 hours
NURS22203 Nursing Practice 3 - 80 hours
NURS22205 Nursing the Older Person - 80 hours
NURS22207 Mental Health Nursing Practice - 80 hours
NURS22204 Nursing Practice 4 - 80 hours
NURS33303 Clinical Nursing Elective - 80 hours
NURS33305 Nursing Practice 5 - 80 hours
NURS33306 Nursing Practice 6 - 80 hours
NURS33308 Transition to Professional Practice - 160 hours
To participate in clinical placements, students will need to meet requirements regarding vaccinations, criminal record and working with children checks, and first aid certification. Refer to Post Admission Requirements for further details.
Post Admission Requirements
To be eligible to attend clinical placements, students must meet a range of requirements including:
Vaccinations in accordance with NSW Health policy
National Criminal Record Check (NCRC)
First aid Certificate
Working with Children Check
NDIS Workers Screening Check
NSW Health Compulsory Compliance Day
NSW Health will verify and record students' compliance in ClinConnect (a web-based application for managing clinical placements) before the commencement of their first clinical placement. The NSW Health Compulsory Compliance Day is included in the semester timetables.
Vaccinations
NSW Health requires that all students enrolled in clinical placements in NSW Public Health Facilities comply with NSW Health policies, in particular the
Occupational Assessment, Screening and Vaccination Against Specified Infectious Diseases
and
Student Placements in NSW Health
. This includes mandatory NSW Health COVID-19 vaccination requirements and annual influenza vaccinations.
Nursing students will be supplied with a 'NSW Health Vaccination Record Card for Health Care Workers and Students’ to provide evidence of immunisations. A medical practitioner (i.e., doctor, nurse, or vaccination provider) must complete the student’s vaccination record card, and each entry must be certified (i.e. clinic/practice stamp, full name, and signature).
We recommend that students print their Medicare vaccination history statement to use as evidence of vaccinations, if available.
It is important to satisfy the vaccination requirements early, therefore, students are encouraged to start this process as soon as possible after acceptance into the Bachelor of Nursing course, as some vaccinations take several months to complete.
For current Public Health Orders see
https://www.health.nsw.gov.au/Infectious/covid-19/Pages/public-health-orders.aspx#lga-requirements
For information regarding Student Compliance in NSW Health facilities see
https://www.heti.nsw.gov.au/Placements-Scholarships-Grants/student-placements/student-compliance
National Criminal Record Check (NCRC)
Students must obtain a
National Police Check Certificate
specifically recognised by NSW Health (i.e., through the Australian Police Force or a CrimTrac Accredited Broker Agency). There are additional requirements for overseas students and students with a criminal disclosure.
NCC Crime check
https://www.nationalcrimecheck.com.au/
For CrimTrac Accredited Broker Agencies list, visit the Australian Criminal Intelligence Commission.
Accredited Bodies
https://www.acic.gov.au/services/national-police-checking-service/find-out-more-information/accredited-bodies
First Aid Certificate
Students will need to complete, or have, an HLTAID011 Provide First Aid Certificate from a recognised training body and must submit this to the Clinical Office by the end of Semester 1. The certificate must be current and valid for the entirety Semester 1 in the first year of study.
Working with Children Check (WWCC)
Working With Children Checks are a mandatory requirement for students and must be completed before the first placement.
Students apply for a
Working With Children Check (WWCC)
online through the Office of the Children's Guardian.
NDIS Workers Screening Check
The
NDIS Workers Screening Check (NDISWC)
is a mandatory requirement for students undertaking placements in all Aged Care facilities and must be completed before the first placement. All students are highly encouraged to complete the NDIWSC.
Uniforms and appearance
Students are required to purchase an Avondale University nursing uniform and will be informed about uniform purchasing at the beginning of their first semester. The uniform must be worn during all clinical placements. The uniform consists of scrub top and pants with the Avondale University logo and enclosed black leather shoes.
Students are required to have their hair off their face and collar. Only wedding rings (without stones) and one set of stud earrings is acceptable. No false nails or nail polish is allowed within clinical areas; nails must be trimmed.
For assistance regarding any post admission requirements, contact the Clinical Office.
E:
clinicaloffice@avondale.edu.au
P:
+61 2 9480 3625
Professional Registration
The Bachelor of Nursing course is accredited by the
Australian
Nursing and Midwifery Accreditation Council (ANMAC)
for the
Nursing
and Midwifery Board of Australia (NMBA)
.
Professional Registration
The Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (AHPRA) requires educational institutions to register students upon commencement of the nursing degree.
Upon completion of the degree, graduates are eligible to apply for nurse registration with AHPRA which oversees the Australian Nursing and Midwifery Board (NMBA). Due to mutual recognition legislation, registration may also be granted in New Zealand. Graduates will need to apply to AHPRA via the NMBA website to register as a registered nurse prior to employment as a nurse in Australia. This process includes the assessment of good character, disclosure of any significant medical conditions that could affect working as a Registered Nurse, and review of criminal history for employment in Australia and overseas. There are also English language requirements for all applicants for Australian registration.
For current registration requirements, visit the
Nursing
and Midwifery Board of Australia
.
Applicants seeking registration as a nurse in a country other than Australia should ascertain the requirements for that country.
Career Opportunities
Our nursing graduates have gained employment in:
Medical, surgical, or critical care
Maternal and paediatric health
Mental health
Gynaecological/women's health
International hospitals and communities
Aged care and community health
Cancer and palliative care
Perioperative/operating theatres
Health related industries such as medical products and services
Education, administration and management.
As a registered nurse, graduates will have the opportunity to specialise in a particular area and/or diversify into other health areas.
Download course guide
"
*
" indicates required fields
Name:
*
First Name
Last Name
Email Address:
*
Mobile Phone:
*
Student Type:
*
Select...
Domestic student (Australian or New Zealand)
International student
I am...
*
Select...
a High School Student
a Parent/Guardian
a Teacher
Other
Current school year:
*
Select...
Year 12
Year 11
Year 10
Year 9
Other
Emma's Story
"The community at Avondale is what makes it so enjoyable. Not only are the facilities amazing, but the lecturers' personalised care is amazing too. They want you to succeed. They want you to be the best nurse that you can be."
- Emma, Bachelor of Nursing.
Scholarships →
Want to reduce the cost of your study? We offer a range of scholarships and grants. View all available
Fees →
You may be eligible for a Fee-Help loan. Commonwealth Supported Place offers are available for some courses.
Enquiries
Phone:
+61 2 4980 2377
Email:
study@avondale.edu.au
Monday-Thursday, 9.00am-5pm
Friday, 9.00am-12.00noon
Apply Now →
Find another course →
ASK A QUESTION
LIVE CHAT
CALL
Ask a question
"
*
" indicates required fields
Student type:
*
Select...
Domestic (Australia or New Zealand)
International
Personal Details
Your Name
*
First Name
Family Name/Surname:
Mobile Phone Number:
*
Email Address:
*
Email Address
Confirm Email Address
I am..
*
Select...
a High School Student
a Parent/Guardian
a Teacher
looking at postgraduate study
other
Current School Year:
*
Select...
Year 12
Year 11
Year 10
Year 9
Other
I am interested in:
*
Select...
Arts (Chaplaincy, Communications, Counselling, English, History, Music, Psychology, Visual Art)
Business
Individual Support
Lifestyle Medicine
Ministry & Theology
Nursing
Outdoor Leadership
Science
Research Degrees
Teaching
Unsure/Other
How did you hear about us?
*
Select...
At School
Bus Advertisement
Career Expos
Church/Church Big Camps
Good Universities Guide
Google
Printed material (course guide, leaflet, brochure)
Radio
Record Magazine
Social Media (Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIN)
UAC website
Word of Mouth (friends, family, teachers)
Other
Your message:
*
CAPTCHA
search
close
chevron-right
chevron-down
facebook-square
bars
play-circle
instagram
apartment
pencil
license
bookmark
chevron-down
checkmark-circle
linkedin
facebook
pinterest
youtube
rss
twitter
instagram
facebook-blank
rss-blank
linkedin-blank
pinterest
youtube
twitter
instagram
Notifications


Initial deposit for All Programs $15,664

Annual fee for All Programs is $31,328


English Language Requirements All Department is different choose 1:
Arts
IELTS: 6.5 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 79 (minimum score of 20 in reading, listening, and speaking, and 24 in writing)
PTE: 58 (no communicative score less than 50)
Business
IELTS: 6.5 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 79 (minimum score of 20 in reading, listening, and speaking, and 24 in writing)
PTE: 58 (no communicative score less than 50)
Teaching (B-12yrs, Primary, Secondary)
IELTS: 7.5 (no score below 7.0 in any area, and 8.0 in speaking and listening)
TOEFL iBT: Not specified
PTE: Not specified
Ministry & Theology
IELTS: 6.0 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 60 (minimum scores: 15 in listening, 15 in reading, 21 in writing, 18 in speaking)
PTE: 50 (no communicative score less than 50)
Nursing
IELTS: 7.0 (no sub-band below 7.0)
TOEFL iBT: 94 (minimum scores: 24 in listening, 24 in reading, 27 in writing, 23 in speaking)
PTE: 65 (minimum score of 65 in each communicative skill)


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate Programs
Higher Secondary School Certificate plus successful completion of one year full-time equivalent of a Bachelor degree at a recognised/accredited university.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs
The minimum academic entry requirements for postgraduate applicants is successful completion of a recognised Bachelor degree equivalent to an Australian degree.
