Link: https://www.avondale.edu.au/course/bachelor-of-arts-bachelor-of-teaching-primary/

Current Students
Staff
Library
Alumni
News & Events
CURRENT STUDENTS
STAFF
LIBRARY
ALUMNI
NEWS & EVENTS
DONATE
YOUR UNI
STUDY
RESEARCH
YOUR UNI
Who We Are
Our Purpose
History
Learning & Teaching
Rankings & Achievements
Faculty & Schools
Academic Integrity
Campuses
CASTL
Venue & Facility Hire
STUDENT LIFE
Support Services
Accommodation
Spiritual Life
Student Associations
Sport & Fitness
FOLLOW US ONLINE
COURSES
Nursing
Teaching
Business
Ministry
Arts
Counselling
Lifestyle Medicine
Science & Mathematics
Postgraduate Courses
Higher Degrees by Research
Vocational Education Training
Short Courses
NEW STUDENTS
Apply Now
Pathways
Not sure what to study?
Early Entry
Fees & costs
Scholarships
International Students
Units Offered
RESEARCH AT AVONDALE
Research Integrity & Ethics
Strategy & Performance
Research Training & Support
RESEARCH CENTRES
Christian Education
Lifestyle Medicine & Health
Scripture, Spirituality & Society
PUBLICATIONS
Research Repository
Reporting Your Publications
TEACH Journal
PARTNER ENTITIES
EGW Research Centre
Adventist Heritage Centre
Australasian Research Institute
ENQUIRE NOW →
Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Teaching (Primary)
Why study with us?
The Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Teaching (Primary) is designed to equip students with the necessary skills needed to teach in Christian, independent and state school systems in both Australia and overseas. There is an increasing demand for Christian teachers to be employed in all school sectors across Australia. Avondale graduates are highly valued for being reflective, creative, and confident in the classroom.
The degree qualifies and prepares graduates to teach from Kindergarten to Year 6, and to be responsible ethical leaders to children. BA/BTch (Primary) is a highly practical course with hands-on classroom experience from the second year of full-time study. Students will engage in four Professional Experience Placements. These are undertaken at various schools to enable the application of theory in a practical setting. Students may also be able to undertake an overseas Professional Experience Placement.
Primary Key Learning Areas include:
English,
Mathematics,
Humanities and Social Sciences,
Creative Arts,
Science, and
Health and Physical Education.
Key Information
Study Mode:
On campus
Location:
Lake Macquarie
Duration:
Full-time: 4 years, Part-time: Equivalent years
Course Code:
4220
CRICOS Code:
090540D
APPLY NOW
Course Details
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Teaching (Primary), graduates will be able to:
synthesise their personal and professional beliefs into a worldview that enables them to be effective and ethical teachers;
create quality learning experiences for all students;
demonstrate the acquisition of a body of knowledge and skills specific to the creative and professional practice of chosen discipline areas;
use personal competencies to enhance knowledge acquisition, communication, problem solving, creativity and sustainability;
design, implement and evaluate curriculum and assessment for diverse learners;
create sustainable, safe, respectful, socially just, and supportive learning environments;
promote holistic wellbeing practices in personal and professional settings;
address educational issues through research to improve teaching knowledge and practice;
demonstrate and employ a philosophy of service and servant leadership in professional and personal spheres;
reflect critically on professional practice, professional commitment, and ethical and moral responsibilities of the teaching profession.
Admission Criteria
There are many options for satisfying the entry requirements for our courses. An applicant needs to meet at least one of the following entry requirements to be given an offer to study at Avondale.
I have completed my secondary education in Australia or New Zealand and achieved:
a selection rank of at least 63. A selection rank is calculated as the ATAR plus any
adjustment factors
that may be applicable;
or
a minimum of 24 points in the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma;
or
New Zealand Year 13 NCEA Level 3 results, identifying university entrance attainment;
or
an appropriate score in the
uniTEST and the Tertiary Online Written Assessment
;
or
an appropriate score in the
Skills for Tertiary Admissions Test
(STAT)*;
or
the International Big Picture Learning Credential.
*Applicants must not be a current year 12 (or equivalent) student and must be 18 years or older at the time of commencing their course.
I have completed a Vocational education and training (VET) course in Australia or New Zealand and achieved:
an Australian Certificate IV or higher, or
an equivalent New Zealand certificate, as approved by the Director, Student Administration Services.
I have already attended university in Australia or New Zealand and:
successfully completed at least 2 units of a Bachelor’s degree;
or
completed a bridging or enabling course, or another recognised tertiary preparation course;
or
successfully completed at least three units of Avondale’s Undergraduate Certificate in University Preparation.
I have completed my secondary education or higher education qualification overseas:
refer to the
Admission Policy (HE)
for specific information regarding both the minimum academic entry standards (Appendix 1) and the English language proficiency requirements (Appendix 2).
I have other work and life experience:
If a Senior Secondary Certificate has not been completed, an eligible applicant may sit an admission test (
uniTEST and TOWA
or the
Skills for Tertiary Admission Test
).
In exceptional circumstances, an applicant may be admitted based on equivalent qualifications or work and life experience as assessed by the Course Convenor or delegate and/or the DVC Academic.
This course has additional entry requirements which are listed below:
Applicants must submit the
Personal Statement for Initial Teaching Training
(PSITE). The PSITE assesses the applicant’s suitability for becoming a teacher and consists of four questions with a maximum of 250 words per response.
If you plan to study any of the following primary teaching areas, you must meet the relevant criteria for admission:
Chemistry
Recent HSC Chemistry and Mathematics (Advanced) or equivalent;
or
Other qualifications may be acceptable. Students should contact the Course Convenor.
Mathematics
Recent HSC Mathematics (Extension 1) or equivalent;
or
An alternative pathway is HSC Mathematics (Advanced) or equivalent plus MATH16400 General Mathematics.
Other qualifications may be acceptable. Students should contact the Course Convenor.
Music
Admission to the Avondale Conservatorium is by audition.
Applicants must meet the following minimum requirements:
Performance: AMEB Grade 6 (or equivalent) on instrument or voice;
and
Musicianship and/or Theory: AMEB Grade 4 (or equivalent).
Where an applicant does not meet the required minimum standard, admission is possible with other appropriate music experience upon approval from the Director of Music.
For more information, see our
Frequently Asked Questions
.
To arrange an audition, email the Director of Music at
conservatorium@avondale.edu.au
.
International Students
This course is available to international students who meet the Australian government requirements for a student visa to reside in Australia for the duration of the course. For information regarding visas refer to
https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/study
.
English Language Requirements
Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate English language proficiency one of the following:
achieving a minimum overall IELTS score of 7.5, with a minimum score of 7.0 in reading and writing, and a minimum score of 8.0 in listening and speaking,
or
one of the other ways outlined in Appendix 2 of the
Admission Policy (HE)
.
Advanced Standing
Applicants who have completed prior study may be eligible for advanced standing (credit recognition). Applicants should discuss their eligibility for advanced standing with the Admissions Team or the Course Convenor.
Course Structure
The Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Teaching (Primary) consists of 32 units and requires 192 credit points for completion. Every unit has a 6 credit-point value.
The first year of full-time study is comprised of core and specialisation units which must be completed prior to the first Professional Experience Placement, scheduled in the second year of study.
The course structure is based on eight semesters with four units normally studied in each semester in a full-time load. The course is comprised of:
4 Core Units
13 Education Units
11 Curriculum Units
4 Primary Specialisation Units in a Key Learning Area (KLA)
Core Units
Core units are compulsory for all students in the BA/BTch (Primary) providing students with foundational understanding.
WHPE10101 Foundations of Wellbeing
MATH10000 Applied Numeracy
SCTS11100 Exploring the Physical & Natural World
GSTL15000 Tertiary Writing
Education Units
These units cover a range of current educational topics designed to prepare teacher education students to successfully teach young people.
EDUC12101 Curriculum and Pedagogical Studies Primary – Preparing for the Learning Environment
EDUC20100 Exploring a Christian Worldview
EDUC10102 Child Development & Learning
EDUC12102 ICT & Curriculum
EDUC22102 Curriculum and Pedagogical Studies Primary – Planning & Assessment for Learning
EDUC22103 Curriculum and Pedagogical Studies Primary – Teaching & Researching for Effective Learning
EDUC22104 Managing the Primary Classroom Environment
EDUC30101 Professional Development: Preparation for the Workplace
EDUC30102 Students with Special Education Needs
EDUC20104 Indigenous Education
EDUC30108 Educational Research & Diversity
EDUC30105 Exploring a Philosophy of Christian Education
EDPX30001 Professional Experience
Curriculum Units
Curriculum units prepare students to teach in Primary School settings by focusing on Primary Curriculum Studies. These units cover all mandatory Key Learning Areas.
EDUC14101 Curriculum Studies-Teaching Creative Arts I
EDUC14104 Curriculum Studies-Teaching Initial English
EDUC14102 Curriculum Studies-Teaching English I
EDUC14105 Curriculum Studies-Teaching Mathematics I
EDUC24104 Curriculum Studies-Teaching English II
EDUC24106 Curriculum Studies-Teaching Mathematics II
EDUC24107 Curriculum Studies-Teaching Science & Technology
EDUC34110 Curriculum Studies-Teaching Humanities & Social Sciences
EDUC24112 Curriculum Studies-Teaching Creative Arts II
EDUC34109 Curriculum Studies-Teaching Health & Physical Education
EDUC34111 Curriculum Studies-Teaching Biblical Studies
Primary Specialisation
The Primary specialisation is comprised of four units within a KLA of the primary curriculum. Primary specialisations are content units that are taught by the relevant disciplines and are designed to build a strong body of knowledge in one area of the Primary Curriculum. Primary specialisations include:
Science
Mathematics
Health and Physical Education
Creative Arts
English
Humanities and Social Sciences
Students must contact the Course Convenor for details about unit selection.
BA/BTch (Primary) - Course Grid
Year
Semester
Unit
Unit
Unit
Unit
1
1
Core
MATH10000
Applied Numeracy
Core
WHPE10101
Foundations of Wellbeing
Primary Specialisation 1
Primary Specialisation 2
2
Core
GSTL15000
Tertiary Writing
Core
SCTS11100
Exploring the Physical & Natural World
Primary Specialisation 3
Primary Specialisation 4
2
1
EDUC14105
Curriculum Studies - Teaching Mathematics I
EDUC14101
Curriculum Studies - Teaching Creative Arts I
EDUC12102
ICT & Curriculum
EDUC12101
Curriculum & Pedagogical Studies Primary - Preparing for the Learning Environment
Professional Teaching Experience I (July - 15 days)
/td>
2
EDUC14102
Curriculum Studies - Teaching English I
EDUC14104 Curriculum Studies - Teaching Initial English
EDUC10102
Child Development & Learning
EDUC22102
Curriculum & Pedagogical Studies Primary - Planning & Assessment for Learning
3
Professional Teaching Experience II (February - 10 days)
1
EDUC24104
Curriculum Studies - Teaching English II
EDUC34109
Curriculum Studies - Teaching Health & Physical Education
EDUC22104
Managing the Primary Classroom Environment
EDUC22103
Curriculum & Pedagogical Studies Primary - Teaching & Researching for Effective Learning
Professional Teaching Experience III (July - 15 days)
2
EDUC24107
Curriculum Studies - Teaching Science & Technology
EDUC24106
Curriculum Studies - Teaching Mathematics II
EDUC24112
Curriculum Studies - Teaching Creative Arts II
EDUC20100
Exploring a Christian Worldview
4
1
EDUC34110
Curriculum Studies - Teaching Humanities & Social Sciences
EDUC20104
Indigenous Education
EDUC34111
Curriculum Studies - Teaching Biblical Studies
EDUC30101
Professional Development: Preparation for the Workplace
Professional Experience V (June/July, 40 days)
2
EDUC30102
Students with Special Education Needs
EDPX30001
Professional Experience
EDUC30105
Exploring a Philosophy of Christian Education
EDUC30108
Educational Research & Diversity
To view unit information, note the unit code and search for the unit in
Unit Outlines
.
Practical Experience
Students have regular opportunities to practice their developing teaching skills in the classroom through Professional Experience Placement. For those in an undergraduate degree this is a minimum of 80 days. This provides opportunities to develop essential mastery of the Graduate Teaching Standards, required by the Australian Institute of Teaching and School Leadership (AITSL) prior to graduation.
It is important that teacher education students:
Be available during regularly scheduled Professional Experience Placements, refraining from booking other events during this time
Be willing to experience a variety of school contexts
Take responsibility for any transport or accommodation costs associated with their Professional Experience Placement
Students must provide evidence of compliance on arrival at each school for their Professional Experience Placement. Evidence includes:
Working With Children Check
Child Protection Awareness Training and annual updates
ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training
NSW Department of Education Code of Conduct
If students become ineligible to visit schools for Professional Experience Placement or are barred from attending at a school for any reason, they will not be able to complete this degree.
Fitness for Teaching
Students need to demonstrate their fitness for teaching to complete a Professional Experience Placement. This means being able to:
maintain satisfactory academic progression before Professional Experience Placement,
act in a way that demonstrates sound cognitive, mental, emotional, and physical health, and be able to cope with the varying demands of classroom situations,
demonstrate the ability to cope effectively with stressful situations,
demonstrate the ability to maintain a duty of care while on Professional Experience Placement,
relate to students in an age-appropriate and professional manner,
be able to model appropriate literacy and numeracy skills in the classroom and beyond.
Conflicts of Interest
Teacher education students should seek Professional Experience Placements in schools where no relatives or friends are working or attending. This is to avoid a conflict of interest in mentoring and assessing teacher education students. If applying to such a school, relationships must be disclosed, with Avondale reserving the right to allow the Professional Experience Placement. Failure to disclose this information may mean that the grade for the Professional Experience Placement is subject to revision or annulment. Students cannot complete a placement at a school where they are present or past employees.
Post Admission Requirements
Working with Children Check (WWCC)
Students will need to obtain a New South Wales Working with Children Check, as well as the equivalent Working with Children Check in any state or territory in which they intend to complete a Professional Experience Placement. Students enrolled in an initial teacher education degree will need to have obtained an NSW WWCC no later than the end of their first year.
Students need to apply for a Working with Children Check online through the Office of the Children's Guardian. After the application is complete, the application number and the expiry date must be emailed to the Professional Experience Placement Officer.
E:
edu.placements@avondale.edu.au
Child Protection Awareness Training
Students are required to complete the Child Protection Awareness Training within the first two weeks of the semester, before the first Professional Experience Placement. The training is a self-paced online e-learning course available through the NSW Department of Education. Students should save their evidence of completion as a PDF file and email it to the Professional Experience Placement Officer. E:
edu.placements@avondale.edu.au
.
Child Protection Update
When a student has completed the Child Protection Awareness training, they must register for MyPL, and then complete Child Protection Updates annually.
The specific focus of the annual Child Protection Update varies each year, depending on current needs as identified by the NSW Department of Education. The aim of the course is to provide a general refresher on recognising and responding to suspected risk of harm across a range of categories. It reminds those working in an education context of the actions to take when identifying and responding to students at risk of harm.
ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training
The NSW Department of Education mandates that students receive anaphylaxis management training before commencing their first Professional Experience Placement. Students are required to complete ASCIA anaphylaxis e-training for Australian schools.
Once completed, please print, scan, and email the certificate(s) to the Professional Experience Placement Officer.
E:
edu.placements@avondale.edu.au
National Literacy and Numeracy Test (LANTITE)
Government requirements stipulate that students must pass the Government Literacy and Numeracy Test (LANTITE) in order to commence their final Professional Experience Placement. It is advised that students sit this test in the first year of their course. The booking of and the payment for these tests is the responsibility of each student, being separate to tuition fees.
The Placement Officer is available to assist students with all post admission requirements and can be contacted at:
E:
edu.placements@avondale.edu.au
T:
02 4980 2180
Professional Registration
At the completion of the course, students must register with the state professional teaching body before practising in the classroom. In New South Wales this accrediting body is the New South Wales Education Standards Authority (NESA).
Career Opportunities
Avondale teaching graduates are highly sought after in the Australian education sector.
Successful completion of the BA/BTch (Primary) will allow the student to graduate with the qualifications to teach from Kindergarten to Year 6 and the potential to gain employment as a:
Primary School Teacher
Primary School Administrator
Primary School Specialist Teacher (Creative Arts, HPE, Science, Humanities & Social Sciences, English and Mathematics)
Tutor
Graduates are qualified to teach in independent and state school systems in both Australia and overseas. In addition to education-related careers, teachers find careers in corporate and government roles where organisational and relationship skills are valued by employers.
Download course guide
"
*
" indicates required fields
Name:
*
First Name
Last Name
Email Address:
*
Mobile Phone:
*
Student Type:
*
Select...
Domestic student (Australian or New Zealand)
International student
I am...
*
Select...
a High School Student
a Parent/Guardian
a Teacher
Other
Current school year:
*
Select...
Year 12
Year 11
Year 10
Year 9
Other
I am interested in studying...
Select...
Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Teaching (Primary)
Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Teaching (Secondary)
Liam's Story
"I want to inspire the younger generation to thrive and to be successful… If my kids want to reach for the stars, my job is to help them get there."
- Liam, Bachelor of Arts/
Bachelor of Teaching (Primary)
Scholarships →
Want to reduce the cost of your study? We offer a range of scholarships and grants. View all available
Fees →
You may be eligible for a Fee-Help loan. Commonwealth Supported Place offers are available for some courses.
Enquiries
Phone:
+61 2 4980 2377
Email:
study@avondale.edu.au
Monday-Thursday, 9.00am-5pm
Friday, 9.00am-12.00noon
Apply Now →
Find another course →
ASK A QUESTION
LIVE CHAT
CALL
Ask a question
"
*
" indicates required fields
Student type:
*
Select...
Domestic (Australia or New Zealand)
International
Personal Details
Your Name
*
First Name
Family Name/Surname:
Mobile Phone Number:
*
Email Address:
*
Email Address
Confirm Email Address
I am..
*
Select...
a High School Student
a Parent/Guardian
a Teacher
looking at postgraduate study
other
Current School Year:
*
Select...
Year 12
Year 11
Year 10
Year 9
Other
I am interested in:
*
Select...
Arts (Chaplaincy, Communications, Counselling, English, History, Music, Psychology, Visual Art)
Business
Individual Support
Lifestyle Medicine
Ministry & Theology
Nursing
Outdoor Leadership
Science
Research Degrees
Teaching
Unsure/Other
How did you hear about us?
*
Select...
At School
Bus Advertisement
Career Expos
Church/Church Big Camps
Good Universities Guide
Google
Printed material (course guide, leaflet, brochure)
Radio
Record Magazine
Social Media (Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIN)
UAC website
Word of Mouth (friends, family, teachers)
Other
Your message:
*
CAPTCHA
search
close
chevron-right
chevron-down
facebook-square
bars
play-circle
instagram
apartment
pencil
license
bookmark
chevron-down
checkmark-circle
linkedin
facebook
pinterest
youtube
rss
twitter
instagram
facebook-blank
rss-blank
linkedin-blank
pinterest
youtube
twitter
instagram
Notifications


Initial deposit for All Programs $15,664

Annual fee for All Programs is $31,328


English Language Requirements All Department is different choose 1:
Arts
IELTS: 6.5 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 79 (minimum score of 20 in reading, listening, and speaking, and 24 in writing)
PTE: 58 (no communicative score less than 50)
Business
IELTS: 6.5 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 79 (minimum score of 20 in reading, listening, and speaking, and 24 in writing)
PTE: 58 (no communicative score less than 50)
Teaching (B-12yrs, Primary, Secondary)
IELTS: 7.5 (no score below 7.0 in any area, and 8.0 in speaking and listening)
TOEFL iBT: Not specified
PTE: Not specified
Ministry & Theology
IELTS: 6.0 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 60 (minimum scores: 15 in listening, 15 in reading, 21 in writing, 18 in speaking)
PTE: 50 (no communicative score less than 50)
Nursing
IELTS: 7.0 (no sub-band below 7.0)
TOEFL iBT: 94 (minimum scores: 24 in listening, 24 in reading, 27 in writing, 23 in speaking)
PTE: 65 (minimum score of 65 in each communicative skill)


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate Programs
Higher Secondary School Certificate plus successful completion of one year full-time equivalent of a Bachelor degree at a recognised/accredited university.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs
The minimum academic entry requirements for postgraduate applicants is successful completion of a recognised Bachelor degree equivalent to an Australian degree.
