Link: https://www.avondale.edu.au/course/master-of-lifestyle-medicine/

Current Students
Staff
Library
Alumni
News & Events
CURRENT STUDENTS
STAFF
LIBRARY
ALUMNI
NEWS & EVENTS
DONATE
YOUR UNI
STUDY
RESEARCH
YOUR UNI
Who We Are
Our Purpose
History
Learning & Teaching
Rankings & Achievements
Faculty & Schools
Academic Integrity
Campuses
CASTL
Venue & Facility Hire
STUDENT LIFE
Support Services
Accommodation
Spiritual Life
Student Associations
Sport & Fitness
FOLLOW US ONLINE
COURSES
Nursing
Teaching
Business
Ministry
Arts
Counselling
Lifestyle Medicine
Science & Mathematics
Postgraduate Courses
Higher Degrees by Research
Vocational Education Training
Short Courses
NEW STUDENTS
Apply Now
Pathways
Not sure what to study?
Early Entry
Fees & costs
Scholarships
International Students
Units Offered
RESEARCH AT AVONDALE
Research Integrity & Ethics
Strategy & Performance
Research Training & Support
RESEARCH CENTRES
Christian Education
Lifestyle Medicine & Health
Scripture, Spirituality & Society
PUBLICATIONS
Research Repository
Reporting Your Publications
TEACH Journal
PARTNER ENTITIES
EGW Research Centre
Adventist Heritage Centre
Australasian Research Institute
ENQUIRE NOW →
Master of Lifestyle Medicine
Why study with us?
The Master of Lifestyle Medicine is designed to meet the shifting demands in health care towards lifestyle-based therapies. Evidence demonstrates that a healthy lifestyle is effective for preventing, managing and, in some instances, even reversing chronic health conditions. The course examines the processes used in implementing Lifestyle Medicine and evaluates the evidence concerning key Lifestyle Medicine domains - nutrition, physical activity, substance use management, sleep and stress management, social connection, and environmental influences.
The Master of Lifestyle Medicine is for existing health professionals who are passionate about utilising lifestyle-based therapies. The course provides an advanced understanding of Lifestyle Medicine domains, awareness of implementation processes, and engagement in a practical research project.
Major areas of study include an examination of the history of disease and the rationale for Lifestyle Medicine, core Lifestyle Medicine pillars, the pivotal roles of nutrition and physical activity, underlying physiological factors in chronic disease, psychological influences, environmental factors, substance use (with a focus on nicotine), the processes used to administer Lifestyle Medicine, cultural factors that influence Lifestyle Medicine interventions, and a year-long practical research project.
The
Australasian Society of Lifestyle Medicine
recognises the completion of the Master of Lifestyle Medicine degree as fulfilling the point requirements to obtain Fellowship status.
Key Information
Study Mode:
Off campus
Location:
Lake Macquarie
Duration:
Part-time: 3 years
Course Code:
2086
CRICOS Code:
APPLY NOW
Course Details
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the Master of Lifestyle Medicine, graduates will be able to:
1. Explain and critique the diverse elements of Lifestyle Medicine, informed by an integrated understanding of the contemporary body of knowledge;
2. Articulate, apply and evaluate a whole-of-health perspective encompassing freedom from disease through to positive wellbeing;
3. Advocate for the implementation of Lifestyle Medicine informed by an integrated knowledge of the relationship between lifestyle and disease and the underlying causation of chronic diseases;
4. Utilise a research-led methodological approach to develop and present the concepts of Lifestyle Medicine within the context of public health and clinical practice;
5. Communicate the principles of Lifestyle Medicine to a diverse range of recipients with regard to culture, age and gender using multiple forms of communication;
6. Design and apply Lifestyle Medicine interventions in a variety of cultural settings and employ appropriate evaluation processes to monitor and modify the effectiveness of these interventions;
7. Argue for the role of identity, meaning and spirituality in the effectiveness of Lifestyle Medicine interventions and be able to recognise, design, apply and appraise these elements in Lifestyle Medicine interventions;
8. Critically and creatively design, implement, evaluate and communicate Lifestyle Medicine related research.
Admission Criteria
To qualify for admission, an applicant must have completed:
An Australian Bachelor's degree in a related discipline listed under the 06 Health broad Field of Education, as determined by the Australian Standard Classification of Education (ASCED), or if the applicant’s degree is not in a 06 Health broad Field of Education, they may still be considered for admission provided a minimum of six units (36 credit points) in a health-related area (e.g. a health and physical education major) has been completed,
or
An Australian Graduate Diploma in Lifestyle Medicine,
or
an overseas qualification comparable to the above or higher.
In exceptional circumstances an applicant may be admitted based on qualifications deemed equivalent as assessed by the Course Convenor in consultation with the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic).
International Students
This course is available online to international students residing outside Australia. The course is not available to international students residing in Australia.
English Language Requirements
Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate English language proficiency through one of the following:
achieving an overall IELTS score of 6.5 with no sub-band less than 6.0,
or
one of the other ways outlined in Appendix 2 of the
Admission Policy (HE)
,
or
providing documentary evidence of a prior qualification (or at least two years of tertiary study) conducted and assessed in English in a recognised country^ and completed within the last two years.
^Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Republic of Ireland, South Africa, United Kingdom, or the United States of America.
Advanced Standing
Applicants who have completed prior study may be eligible for advanced standing (credit recognition). Applicants should discuss their eligibility for advanced standing with the Admissions Team or the Course Convenor.
Course Structure
The Master of Lifestyle Medicine consists of nine units and the year-long Research Project and requires 72 credit points for completion. Every unit has a 6 credit point value unless otherwise stated.
The sequence of units offered is based on a repeating 2-year cycle:
Code
Name
Semester
Year Cycle
Credit Points
LMLR50101
Lifestyle Medicine - Past, Present & Future
2
Odd and Even years
6
LMLR50102
Food as Medicine
2
Odd years
6
LMLR50104
Physiological Underpinnings of Chronic Disease
1
Even years
6
LMLR50106
Psychosocial Factors in Lifestyle Medicine and Health
1
Even years
6
LMLR50105
Exercise as Medicine
2
Even years
6
LMLR50109
Nicotine Addiction and Smoking Cessation
2
Even years
6
LMLR50107
Processes in Lifestyle Medicine and Health Promotion
1
Odd years
6
LMLR50108
Lifestyle Medicine for Specific Populations
1
Odd years
6
NURS50100
Research Methods
1
Odd and Even years
6
LMLR50120
Major Project in Lifestyle Medicine (year-long, equivalent of three units of work) *
1, 2
Odd and Even years
18
* LMLR50120 is available any semester of any given year subject to the following conditions:
a.     Previously completed at least six core Lifestyle Medicine units
b.     Previously completed the NURS50100 unit
or
is enrolled in NURS50100 concurrently
To find out more about any of the units listed here, copy the unit code and then search for that unit
here
.
To view unit information, note the unit code and search for the unit in
Unit Outlines
.
Career Opportunities
The Master of Lifestyle Medicine benefits professionals with existing healthcare backgrounds such as doctors, occupational therapists, physiotherapists, nurses, dietitians, health coaches and physical education teachers, and any other healthcare professional who wants to diversify their knowledge in the lifestyle-based therapies. Graduates also fulfill requirements to apply for fellowship with the Australasian Society of Lifestyle Medicine. On completion of the degree, Practitioner Members of ASLM may apply for Fellowship through the usual candidature processes.
Download course guide
"
*
" indicates required fields
Name:
*
First Name
Last Name
Email Address:
*
Mobile Phone:
*
Student Type:
*
Select...
Domestic student (Australian or New Zealand)
International student
Scholarships →
Want to reduce the cost of your study? We offer a range of scholarships and grants. View all available
Fees →
You may be eligible for a Fee-Help loan. Commonwealth Supported Place offers are available for some courses.
Enquiries
Phone:
+61 2 4980 2377
Email:
study@avondale.edu.au
Monday-Thursday, 9.00am-5pm
Friday, 9.00am-12.00noon
Apply Now →
Find another course →
ASK A QUESTION
LIVE CHAT
CALL
Ask a question
"
*
" indicates required fields
Student type:
*
Select...
Domestic (Australia or New Zealand)
International
Personal Details
Your Name
*
First Name
Family Name/Surname:
Mobile Phone Number:
*
Email Address:
*
Email Address
Confirm Email Address
I am..
*
Select...
a High School Student
a Parent/Guardian
a Teacher
looking at postgraduate study
other
Current School Year:
*
Select...
Year 12
Year 11
Year 10
Year 9
Other
I am interested in:
*
Select...
Arts (Chaplaincy, Communications, Counselling, English, History, Music, Psychology, Visual Art)
Business
Individual Support
Lifestyle Medicine
Ministry & Theology
Nursing
Outdoor Leadership
Science
Research Degrees
Teaching
Unsure/Other
How did you hear about us?
*
Select...
At School
Bus Advertisement
Career Expos
Church/Church Big Camps
Good Universities Guide
Google
Printed material (course guide, leaflet, brochure)
Radio
Record Magazine
Social Media (Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIN)
UAC website
Word of Mouth (friends, family, teachers)
Other
Your message:
*
CAPTCHA
search
close
chevron-right
chevron-down
facebook-square
bars
instagram
pencil
bookmark
chevron-down
checkmark-circle
linkedin
facebook
pinterest
youtube
rss
twitter
instagram
facebook-blank
rss-blank
linkedin-blank
pinterest
youtube
twitter
instagram
Notifications


Initial deposit for All Programs $15,664

Annual fee for All Programs is $31,328


English Language Requirements All Department is different choose 1:
Arts
IELTS: 6.5 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 79 (minimum score of 20 in reading, listening, and speaking, and 24 in writing)
PTE: 58 (no communicative score less than 50)
Business
IELTS: 6.5 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 79 (minimum score of 20 in reading, listening, and speaking, and 24 in writing)
PTE: 58 (no communicative score less than 50)
Teaching (B-12yrs, Primary, Secondary)
IELTS: 7.5 (no score below 7.0 in any area, and 8.0 in speaking and listening)
TOEFL iBT: Not specified
PTE: Not specified
Ministry & Theology
IELTS: 6.0 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 60 (minimum scores: 15 in listening, 15 in reading, 21 in writing, 18 in speaking)
PTE: 50 (no communicative score less than 50)
Nursing
IELTS: 7.0 (no sub-band below 7.0)
TOEFL iBT: 94 (minimum scores: 24 in listening, 24 in reading, 27 in writing, 23 in speaking)
PTE: 65 (minimum score of 65 in each communicative skill)


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate Programs
Higher Secondary School Certificate plus successful completion of one year full-time equivalent of a Bachelor degree at a recognised/accredited university.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs
The minimum academic entry requirements for postgraduate applicants is successful completion of a recognised Bachelor degree equivalent to an Australian degree.
