Link: https://www.avondale.edu.au/course/master-of-arts/

Current Students
Staff
Library
Alumni
News & Events
CURRENT STUDENTS
STAFF
LIBRARY
ALUMNI
NEWS & EVENTS
DONATE
YOUR UNI
STUDY
RESEARCH
YOUR UNI
Who We Are
Our Purpose
History
Learning & Teaching
Rankings & Achievements
Faculty & Schools
Academic Integrity
Campuses
CASTL
Venue & Facility Hire
STUDENT LIFE
Support Services
Accommodation
Spiritual Life
Student Associations
Sport & Fitness
FOLLOW US ONLINE
COURSES
Nursing
Teaching
Business
Ministry
Arts
Counselling
Lifestyle Medicine
Science & Mathematics
Postgraduate Courses
Higher Degrees by Research
Vocational Education Training
Short Courses
NEW STUDENTS
Apply Now
Pathways
Not sure what to study?
Early Entry
Fees & costs
Scholarships
International Students
Units Offered
RESEARCH AT AVONDALE
Research Integrity & Ethics
Strategy & Performance
Research Training & Support
RESEARCH CENTRES
Christian Education
Lifestyle Medicine & Health
Scripture, Spirituality & Society
PUBLICATIONS
Research Repository
Reporting Your Publications
TEACH Journal
PARTNER ENTITIES
EGW Research Centre
Adventist Heritage Centre
Australasian Research Institute
ENQUIRE NOW →
Master of Arts
Why study with us?
The Master of Arts (MA) equips Christian leaders for greater effectiveness in their ministry within a church, school, hospital, or the wider community.
The course engages students in new knowledge and advanced understanding in ministerial and theological studies, evidence-based perspectives on specialised issues, ideas and concepts for professional practice, and the application of research to new contexts and ministries.
This course is offered with a specialisation in one of:
Pastoral Leadership
Chaplaincy Studies
Theology/Biblical Studies, or
Youth and Family Ministry.
NOTE: The availability of 'Chaplaincy Studies' and 'Youth and Family Ministry' specialisations are subject to adequate cohort numbers.  Enquire about the next offering.
Key Information
Study Mode:
Mixed mode
Location:
Lake Macquarie
Duration:
Part-time: 4 years
Course Code:
2005
CRICOS Code:
APPLY NOW
Course Details
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the Master of Arts, graduates will be able to:
Critically engage with a body of knowledge in a way that demonstrates an advanced understanding and application of recent developments in Ministry Studies or Theological Studies;
Create evidence-based perspectives on specialised issues in Ministry Studies or Theological Studies by engaging the academic literature, evaluating alternative accounts and drawing reasoned conclusions;
evaluate and generate complex ideas and concepts that are grounded in professional practice using cognitive, technical and creative skills.
Effectively disseminate research outcomes to a variety of audiences using highly developed communication skills;
Demonstrate emotional and cultural intelligence in relation to new contexts and issues encountered in theological readings and the professional practice of ministry.
Admission Criteria
To qualify for admission, an applicant must have achieved:
an Australian Bachelor of Ministry and/or Theology or equivalent,
or
Avondale’s Graduate Certificate in Arts,
or
an overseas ministry or theology qualification comparable to an Australian Bachelor’s degree or higher.
Applicants opting for the Youth & Family Ministry or Chaplaincy specialisation may have completed a Bachelor in Chaplaincy with a major in Theology, or a Bachelor of Education or Teaching with a major in Religious Studies as approved by the Course Convenor.
In exceptional circumstances an applicant may be admitted based on qualifications deemed equivalent as assessed by the Course Convenor in consultation with the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic).
This course has additional entry requirements which are listed below:
A minimum of two years of ministry or chaplaincy experience and current (or recent) employment in the field.
A written summary of ministry experience (Pastoral Leadership or Theology/Biblical Studies Specialisation), or chaplaincy experience (Chaplaincy Studies Specialisation), or youth/family ministry experience (Youth and Family Ministry Specialisation) and reasons for wanting to enter this course (250 words).
International Students
This course is available online to international students residing outside Australia. Students must be able to obtain an appropriate visa to visit Australia for the compulsory on-campus intensive study period. The course is not available to international students residing in Australia. For information regarding visas refer to
https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/study
English Language Requirements
Applicants whose primary language is not English, must demonstrate English language proficiency through one of the following:
achieving an overall IELTS score of 6.5 overall with no sub-band less than 6.0,
or
one of the other ways outlined in Appendix 2 of the
Admission Policy (HE)
,
or
documentary evidence of a prior qualification (or at least two years of tertiary study) conducted and assessed in English in a recognised country^ and completed within the last two years.
^Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Republic of Ireland, South Africa, United Kingdom, or the United States of America.
Advanced Standing
Applicants who have completed prior study may be eligible for advanced standing (credit recognition). Applicants should discuss their eligibility for advanced standing with the Admissions Team or the Course Convenor.
Course Structure
The Master of Arts (MA) consists of 12 units and requires 72 credit points for completion. All units are worth 6 credit points unless otherwise stated.
This course is not offered full-time.
Students generally complete three units per year over four years in a part-time program.
Not all units or all specialisations are available every year. Course Convenor guidance regarding units and unit availability is highly recommended.
The 12 units required to complete the course are:
Three core units (compulsory); and
Five specialisation units (all students must select a specialisation); and
ONE of the following options:
Four electives.
Two electives, one research methods unit, and one research project unit ~ THRE51000 Research Project (six credit points).
One research methods unit, and one extended research project unit ~ THRE52000 Extended Research Project (18 credit points).
Core units
Students complete all of:
CMIN51100
Graduate Studies in Biblical Spirituality
THBB56600
Theology, Theory & Practice of Leadership for Ministry
CMIN52110
Discipleship & Disciple-making – Meaning, Context & Application
Specialisations
Students complete all five units within their specialisation. See the ‘Specialisation unit lists’ below.
Elective units
Elective units may be selected from any Master’s course offered at Avondale. Course Convenor guidance is recommended.
Research units
The six credit point research project consists of 5000 words.
The 18 credit point research project consists of 15000 words.
Those students who complete the 18 credit point Extended Research Project may go on to study a professional doctorate e.g. Doctor of Ministry or a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD).
Specialisation lists
Pastoral Leadership
THBB54100
Perspectives on Luke-Acts
THBB56500
Theology of Mission
THBB57000
Theological Framework for Pastoral Leadership
CMIN53100
Church Planting in Biblical & Contemporary Perspective
CMIN56110
Mission into Pluralistic Societies
Chaplaincy Studies
CHPL41500
Fundamentals of Counselling for Chaplains
CHPL45100
Therapeutic Communication for Chaplains
CHPL45130
Ethics, Diversity & Spiritual Integration for Chaplains
CMIN56500
Clinical Pastoral Education 1
THBB56900
Theological Framework for Chaplaincy Studies
Theology/Biblical Studies
THBB50800
Principles & Methods of Theology
THBB51000
Issues in Contemporary Theology
THBB52700
Motifs in Adventism
THBB53200
Recent Approaches to the Parables of Jesus
THBB54100
Perspectives on Luke-Acts
Youth & Family Ministry
CMIN50300
Advanced Lifespan Development for Ministry
CMIN56100
Selected Issues in Youth Ministry
CMIN56400
Youth Ministry in the Setting of Contemporary Culture
CMIN57000
Selected Issues in Family Ministry
CMIN57600
Intergenerational Family Ministry
Students can exit this course with:
a Graduate Certificate in Arts on successful completion of any four units; or
a Graduate Diploma in Arts on successful completion of any eight units.
To find out more about any of the units listed here, copy the unit code and then search for that unit
here
.
To view unit information, note the unit code and search for the unit in
Unit Outlines
.
Practical Experience
CMIN56500 Clinical Pastoral Education 1 includes 400 hours of approved clinical work. There is no work integrated learning requirement for any other units in this course.
Professional Registration
The New South Wales College of Clinical Pastoral Education accredits the units of clinical pastoral education.
Career Opportunities
The Master of Arts provides continuing career advancement for pastors and chaplains.
Scholarships →
Want to reduce the cost of your study? We offer a range of scholarships and grants. View all available
Fees →
You may be eligible for a Fee-Help loan. Commonwealth Supported Place offers are available for some courses.
Enquiries
Phone:
+61 2 4980 2377
Email:
study@avondale.edu.au
Monday-Thursday, 9.00am-5pm
Friday, 9.00am-12.00noon
Apply Now →
Find another course →
ASK A QUESTION
LIVE CHAT
CALL
Ask a question
"
*
" indicates required fields
Student type:
*
Select...
Domestic (Australia or New Zealand)
International
Personal Details
Your Name
*
First Name
Family Name/Surname:
Mobile Phone Number:
*
Email Address:
*
Email Address
Confirm Email Address
I am..
*
Select...
a High School Student
a Parent/Guardian
a Teacher
looking at postgraduate study
other
Current School Year:
*
Select...
Year 12
Year 11
Year 10
Year 9
Other
I am interested in:
*
Select...
Arts (Chaplaincy, Communications, Counselling, English, History, Music, Psychology, Visual Art)
Business
Individual Support
Lifestyle Medicine
Ministry & Theology
Nursing
Outdoor Leadership
Science
Research Degrees
Teaching
Unsure/Other
How did you hear about us?
*
Select...
At School
Bus Advertisement
Career Expos
Church/Church Big Camps
Good Universities Guide
Google
Printed material (course guide, leaflet, brochure)
Radio
Record Magazine
Social Media (Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIN)
UAC website
Word of Mouth (friends, family, teachers)
Other
Your message:
*
CAPTCHA
search
close
chevron-right
chevron-down
facebook-square
bars
instagram
apartment
pencil
license
bookmark
chevron-down
checkmark-circle
linkedin
facebook
pinterest
youtube
rss
twitter
instagram
facebook-blank
rss-blank
linkedin-blank
pinterest
youtube
twitter
instagram
Notifications


Initial deposit for All Programs $15,664

Annual fee for All Programs is $31,328


English Language Requirements All Department is different choose 1:
Arts
IELTS: 6.5 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 79 (minimum score of 20 in reading, listening, and speaking, and 24 in writing)
PTE: 58 (no communicative score less than 50)
Business
IELTS: 6.5 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 79 (minimum score of 20 in reading, listening, and speaking, and 24 in writing)
PTE: 58 (no communicative score less than 50)
Teaching (B-12yrs, Primary, Secondary)
IELTS: 7.5 (no score below 7.0 in any area, and 8.0 in speaking and listening)
TOEFL iBT: Not specified
PTE: Not specified
Ministry & Theology
IELTS: 6.0 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 60 (minimum scores: 15 in listening, 15 in reading, 21 in writing, 18 in speaking)
PTE: 50 (no communicative score less than 50)
Nursing
IELTS: 7.0 (no sub-band below 7.0)
TOEFL iBT: 94 (minimum scores: 24 in listening, 24 in reading, 27 in writing, 23 in speaking)
PTE: 65 (minimum score of 65 in each communicative skill)


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate Programs
Higher Secondary School Certificate plus successful completion of one year full-time equivalent of a Bachelor degree at a recognised/accredited university.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs
The minimum academic entry requirements for postgraduate applicants is successful completion of a recognised Bachelor degree equivalent to an Australian degree.
