Link: https://www.avondale.edu.au/course/master-of-business-administration/

Current Students
Staff
Library
Alumni
News & Events
CURRENT STUDENTS
STAFF
LIBRARY
ALUMNI
NEWS & EVENTS
DONATE
YOUR UNI
STUDY
RESEARCH
YOUR UNI
Who We Are
Our Purpose
History
Learning & Teaching
Rankings & Achievements
Faculty & Schools
Academic Integrity
Campuses
CASTL
Venue & Facility Hire
STUDENT LIFE
Support Services
Accommodation
Spiritual Life
Student Associations
Sport & Fitness
FOLLOW US ONLINE
COURSES
Nursing
Teaching
Business
Ministry
Arts
Counselling
Lifestyle Medicine
Science & Mathematics
Postgraduate Courses
Higher Degrees by Research
Vocational Education Training
Short Courses
NEW STUDENTS
Apply Now
Pathways
Not sure what to study?
Early Entry
Fees & costs
Scholarships
International Students
Units Offered
RESEARCH AT AVONDALE
Research Integrity & Ethics
Strategy & Performance
Research Training & Support
RESEARCH CENTRES
Christian Education
Lifestyle Medicine & Health
Scripture, Spirituality & Society
PUBLICATIONS
Research Repository
Reporting Your Publications
TEACH Journal
PARTNER ENTITIES
EGW Research Centre
Adventist Heritage Centre
Australasian Research Institute
ENQUIRE NOW →
Master of Business Administration
Why study with us?
The Master of Business Administration (MBA) provides advanced training in business management within the context of a Christian framework.
Adapting to rapidly changing business environments calls for a sophisticated set of skills and abilities from leaders and managers. All organisations, including faith-based and not-for-profit, require effective leaders who understand the needs of their organisations.
The MBA recognises that changing environments and new challenges require innovative approaches informed by current philosophies and frameworks for action.While traditional ways of thinking and acting in leadership may have worked well in the past, now there is a need for leadership to project a vision, plan strategically and motivate more effectively. The quest for excellence and the demand for flexibility and rapid response to changing environments is essential for the success of organisations and companies.
Key Information
Study Mode:
Off campus, Mixed mode
Location:
Lake Macquarie
Duration:
Part-time: 3 years
Course Code:
2047
CRICOS Code:
APPLY NOW
Course Details
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the Master of Business Administration, graduates will be able to:
Demonstrate insights and perceptions of managerial conduct which integrate theoretical foundations with organisational needs, leadership and management practice in church organisations, professional trends, and factors affecting contemporary management thinking and practice.
Create a personal professional body of knowledge from a holistic perspective, focussing on attitudes, values and actions applied in a Christian managerial environment.
Display personal effectiveness and efficiency in leadership and management practice.
Explore and apply a systematic approach to the study of leadership and management in a church context and review management literature; develop a maturing recognition of the relevance and values of well reasoned literature, in the advancement of sound academic based practice.
Investigate and critically analyse the nature, the scientific, behavioural, administrative and quantitative foundations of leadership and management related topics, and apply relevant concepts to the practice of effective and efficient leadership and management in the workplace.
Apply and practice specific management activities through a critical analysis of professional practices, standards and current organisational and societal needs.
Assume a professional leadership and management role in either religious or secular organisations, including specialist management consultation.
Conduct in-depth creative problem-solving study involving systematic investigation and reflective thought addressing particular problems or issues in the workplace.
Admission Criteria
To qualify for admission, an applicant must have achieved:
an Australian Bachelor’s degree or higher,
or
an Avondale Graduate Certificate or Graduate Diploma in Leadership and Management;
or
an Australian Graduate Certificate or Graduate Diploma,
or
an overseas qualification comparable to an Australian Bachelor’s degree or higher.
In exceptional circumstances an applicant may be admitted based on qualifications deemed equivalent as assessed by the Course Convenor in consultation with the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic).
In addition, applicants must have:
at least two years’ experience in a leadership or management role,
and
provided a resume/CV outlining relevant experience.
International Students
This course is available online to international students residing outside Australia. Students must be able to obtain an appropriate visa to visit Australia for the compulsory on-campus intensive study period. The course is not available to international students residing in Australia. For information regarding visas refer to
https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/study
.
English Language Requirements
Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate English language proficiency through one of the following:
achieving an overall IELTS score of 6.5 with no sub-band less than 6.0,
or
one of the other ways outlined in Appendix 2 of the
Admission Policy (HE)
,
or
documentary evidence of a prior qualification (or at least two years of tertiary study) conducted and assessed in English in a recognised country^ and completed within the last two years.
^Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Republic of Ireland, South Africa, United Kingdom, or the United States of America.
Advanced Standing
Applicants who have completed prior study may be eligible for advanced standing (credit recognition). Applicants should discuss their eligibility for advanced standing with the Admissions Team or the Course Convenor.
Course Structure
The Master of Business Administration consists of 12 units and requires 72 credit points for completion.
Every unit has a six credit-point value unless otherwise stated.
Units offered are either semester-long or year-long in length. Students should be aware that an intensive on-campus study component is compulsory for year-long units.
Units are offered on a rotational basis each year.
Contact the Course Convenor regarding specific unit availability, and any other questions regarding the course structure.
The MBA offers a choice of two study patterns:
Pattern 1
consists of two core units, course work (discipline-specific units and electives), and an independent project.
Pattern 2
consists of two core units, course work (discipline-specific units and electives), and a major research project.
Core Units:
The following units are required for both Patterns 1 & 2:
LAMC50600 The Theology, Theory & Practice of Leadership, and
LAMC50000 Introduction to Research
Discipline-specific units:
Pattern 1 must complete at least six
units from the list below.   Pattern 2 must complete at least five units from the list below:
LAMC51100 Leadership & Organisation
LAMC51200 Communication for Leaders
LAMC51600 Organisational Processes & Change
LAMC51400 Human Resource Management
LAMC52400 Managerial & Professional Ethics
LAMC52100 Marketing Management
LAMC52300 Strategic Planning for Leadership
LAMC52600 Accounting for Leaders
LAMC52800 Legal & Governance Issues for Managers
Research project units:
Pattern 1 must complete one of the two research projects below:
LAMR59200 Independent Research Project (6 credit points), or
LAMR59300 Extended Independent Research Project (12 credit points)
Pattern 2 must complete:
LAMR59400 Major Research Project (18 credit points project)
Electives:
Electives may be drawn from the discipline-specific units listed above, or other disciplines (on approval from the Course Convenor).  The number of elective units depends on the study pattern chosen.
To view unit information, note the unit code and search for the unit in
Unit Outlines
.
Career Opportunities
Master of Business Administration graduates will be equipped with advanced business management skills and leadership training that can be applied in real-world business situations. This course provides our graduates with the confidence to advance to senior and executive leadership roles.
MBA graduates develop skills for roles such as:
Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
Chief Financial Officer (CFO)
Chief Information Officer (CIO)
Senior Executives and Administrators
Company Secretary
Finance Manager
Hospital Administrator
Advertising Manager
Human Resources Manager
Sales Manager
Director of Operations
Download course guide
"
*
" indicates required fields
Name:
*
First Name
Last Name
Email Address:
*
Mobile Phone:
*
Student Type:
*
Select...
Domestic student (Australian or New Zealand)
International student
Available Exit Points
Graduate Certificate in Leadership and Management
4 Units
Graduate Diploma in Leadership and Management
8 Units
Master of Business Administration
12 Units
“Every semester when I’d finish a unit I’d look back and say, ‘Wow! I’ve learnt so much in that area!’ Several times I’ve told my lecturers that I’m grateful for what I’ve learnt and how I’ve changed and grown. That’s the outcome of my study at Avondale. The more I’ve learnt, the more I’m in love with the area [of study]. The way they treat you is different. You feel that you — the whole you — matter to them and that’s unique to Avondale.”
- Dr Homa Freeman, MBA graduate
Scholarships →
Want to reduce the cost of your study? We offer a range of scholarships and grants. View all available
Fees →
You may be eligible for a Fee-Help loan. Commonwealth Supported Place offers are available for some courses.
Enquiries
Phone:
+61 2 4980 2377
Email:
study@avondale.edu.au
Monday-Thursday, 9.00am-5pm
Friday, 9.00am-12.00noon
Apply Now →
Find another course →
ASK A QUESTION
LIVE CHAT
CALL
Ask a question
"
*
" indicates required fields
Student type:
*
Select...
Domestic (Australia or New Zealand)
International
Personal Details
Your Name
*
First Name
Family Name/Surname:
Mobile Phone Number:
*
Email Address:
*
Email Address
Confirm Email Address
I am..
*
Select...
a High School Student
a Parent/Guardian
a Teacher
looking at postgraduate study
other
Current School Year:
*
Select...
Year 12
Year 11
Year 10
Year 9
Other
I am interested in:
*
Select...
Arts (Chaplaincy, Communications, Counselling, English, History, Music, Psychology, Visual Art)
Business
Individual Support
Lifestyle Medicine
Ministry & Theology
Nursing
Outdoor Leadership
Science
Research Degrees
Teaching
Unsure/Other
How did you hear about us?
*
Select...
At School
Bus Advertisement
Career Expos
Church/Church Big Camps
Good Universities Guide
Google
Printed material (course guide, leaflet, brochure)
Radio
Record Magazine
Social Media (Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIN)
UAC website
Word of Mouth (friends, family, teachers)
Other
Your message:
*
CAPTCHA
search
close
chevron-right
chevron-down
facebook-square
bars
instagram
pencil
bookmark
chevron-down
checkmark-circle
linkedin
facebook
pinterest
youtube
rss
twitter
instagram
facebook-blank
rss-blank
linkedin-blank
pinterest
youtube
twitter
instagram
Notifications


Initial deposit for All Programs $15,664

Annual fee for All Programs is $31,328


English Language Requirements All Department is different choose 1:
Arts
IELTS: 6.5 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 79 (minimum score of 20 in reading, listening, and speaking, and 24 in writing)
PTE: 58 (no communicative score less than 50)
Business
IELTS: 6.5 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 79 (minimum score of 20 in reading, listening, and speaking, and 24 in writing)
PTE: 58 (no communicative score less than 50)
Teaching (B-12yrs, Primary, Secondary)
IELTS: 7.5 (no score below 7.0 in any area, and 8.0 in speaking and listening)
TOEFL iBT: Not specified
PTE: Not specified
Ministry & Theology
IELTS: 6.0 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 60 (minimum scores: 15 in listening, 15 in reading, 21 in writing, 18 in speaking)
PTE: 50 (no communicative score less than 50)
Nursing
IELTS: 7.0 (no sub-band below 7.0)
TOEFL iBT: 94 (minimum scores: 24 in listening, 24 in reading, 27 in writing, 23 in speaking)
PTE: 65 (minimum score of 65 in each communicative skill)


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate Programs
Higher Secondary School Certificate plus successful completion of one year full-time equivalent of a Bachelor degree at a recognised/accredited university.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs
The minimum academic entry requirements for postgraduate applicants is successful completion of a recognised Bachelor degree equivalent to an Australian degree.
