Link: https://www.avondale.edu.au/course/master-of-counselling/

Current Students
Staff
Library
Alumni
News & Events
CURRENT STUDENTS
STAFF
LIBRARY
ALUMNI
NEWS & EVENTS
DONATE
YOUR UNI
STUDY
RESEARCH
YOUR UNI
Who We Are
Our Purpose
History
Learning & Teaching
Rankings & Achievements
Faculty & Schools
Academic Integrity
Campuses
CASTL
Venue & Facility Hire
STUDENT LIFE
Support Services
Accommodation
Spiritual Life
Student Associations
Sport & Fitness
FOLLOW US ONLINE
COURSES
Nursing
Teaching
Business
Ministry
Arts
Counselling
Lifestyle Medicine
Science & Mathematics
Postgraduate Courses
Higher Degrees by Research
Vocational Education Training
Short Courses
NEW STUDENTS
Apply Now
Pathways
Not sure what to study?
Early Entry
Fees & costs
Scholarships
International Students
Units Offered
RESEARCH AT AVONDALE
Research Integrity & Ethics
Strategy & Performance
Research Training & Support
RESEARCH CENTRES
Christian Education
Lifestyle Medicine & Health
Scripture, Spirituality & Society
PUBLICATIONS
Research Repository
Reporting Your Publications
TEACH Journal
PARTNER ENTITIES
EGW Research Centre
Adventist Heritage Centre
Australasian Research Institute
ENQUIRE NOW →
Master of Counselling
Why study with us?
The Master of Counselling provides students with both the experiential and theoretical foundation to function as professional counsellors in Australia. Posited in a Christian worldview, this supportive, two-year course emphasises the common factors essential to counselling, introduces various counselling methods, and builds basic and advanced counselling skills. The Master of Counselling also introduces students to research in the science of counselling and provides a one-year clinical placement.
This course can be studied on campus or online. Students who elect to study this course primarily on campus, must be aware that there is a small group of units that are offered only online.  Students who elect to study this course primarily online, must also note that there is a small group of units that have a short intensive study period component where studying on campus is a mandatory part of this unit.  Students must plan to attend these intensive periods in person.
Key Information
Study Mode:
On campus, Off campus
Location:
Lake Macquarie
Duration:
Full-time: 2 years, Part-time: Equivalent years
Course Code:
2034
CRICOS Code:
APPLY NOW
Course Details
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the Master of Counselling, graduates will be able to:
Demonstrate professional counselling skills matched to client need, with due attention to developmental stages and relevant cultural and spiritual issues.
Apply a specialised body of theoretical knowledge upon which to build advanced clinical practice.
Expertly apply principles of ethical practice in complex client presentations and show in-depth awareness of relevant legal issues in professional counselling practice.
Critically analyse research, and design and conduct a simple research project.
Critically analyse research and design a simple research project.
Integrate and apply spiritual and psychotherapeutic perspectives to particular client presentations.
Reflect on their interpersonal and intrapersonal process as a professional counsellor utilising regular supervision and peer support.
Engage professionally and competently in the work place
Engage professionally and competently in the work place.
Demonstrate an advanced ability to integrate systemic and relationship perspectives into their counselling practice.
Demonstrate professional counselling skills matched to client need, with due attention to developmental stages and relevant cultural and spiritual issues.
Apply a specialised body of theoretical knowledge upon which to build advanced clinical practice.
Expertly apply principles of ethical practice in complex client presentations and show in-depth awareness of relevant legal issues in professional counselling practice.
Critically analyse research, and design and conduct a simple research project.
Critically analyse research and design a simple research project.
Integrate and apply spiritual and psychotherapeutic perspectives to particular client presentations.
Reflect on their interpersonal and intrapersonal process as a professional counsellor utilising regular supervision and peer support.
Engage professionally and competently in the work place
Engage professionally and competently in the work place.
Demonstrate an advanced ability to integrate systemic and relationship perspectives into their counselling practice.
Admission Criteria
To qualify for admission, an applicant must have achieved:
• an Australian Bachelor’s degree,
or
• an overseas qualification comparable to an Australian Bachelor’s degree or higher.
In exceptional circumstances an applicant may be admitted based on qualifications deemed equivalent as assessed by the Course Convenor in consultation with the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic).
International Students
Who are on a student visa:
This course is not available to international students on a student visa (subclass 500) or for those who wish to study on a student visa.
Who are on a visa other than a student visa:
International students on a visa other than a student visa with no study limitations, may choose to study full-time or part-time in any study mode.
(Students are considered a domestic student if they hold a permanent residency visa.)
Who do not require a visa:
This course is also available online for international students who want to study from their home country. The student will need to arrange their own tourist visa to attend mandatory intensive units delivered face-to-face. Please explore the visa option to plan your study.
English Language Requirements
Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate English language proficiency through one of the following:
1. achieving an overall IELTS score of 6.5 with no sub-band less than 6.0,
or
2. one of the other ways outlined in Appendix 2 of the
Admission Policy (HE)
,
or
3. documentary evidence of a prior qualification (or at least two years of tertiary study) conducted and assessed in English in a recognised country^ and completed within the last two years.
^Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Republic of Ireland, South Africa, United Kingdom, or the United States of America.
Advanced Standing
Applicants who have completed prior study may be eligible for advanced standing (credit recognition). Applicants should discuss their eligibility for advanced standing with the Admissions Team or the Course Convenor.
Course Structure
The Master of Counselling (MC) consists of 16 units and requires 96 credit points for completion. All units are worth 6 credit points unless otherwise stated.
Some units are only available online.
Some units are only available in Mixed Mode. These units are studied mainly online, but also have a short but compulsory on-campus intensive study period.  Students must be able to travel to attend the intensive study period on campus for the duration of the intensive study period (usually one week).
Units by Semester
Sem 1
CNSL41100
Fundamentals of Counselling
CNSL41110
Psychotherapy and Counselling Theories
CNSL41160
Introduction to Psychology for Counselling
CNSL41140
Developmental Theories and Counselling
Sem 2
CNSL41400
Research in Counselling Practice A
CNSL41120
Spiritual Perspectives on Emotional Disorders
CNSL41130
Ethics, Diversity and Spiritual Integration
CNSL41210
Advanced Therapeutic Skills
Sem 3
CNSL51230
Mental Health & Psychopathology
CNSL51260
Counselling Children & Adolescents
CNSL51300
Counselling Practice I
CNSL51240
Systemic and Family Therapy Approaches
Sem 4
CNSL51250
Counselling Couples
PSYC51500
Introduction to Psychology of Religion
CNSL51310
Counselling Practice II
CNSL51410
Research in Counselling Practice B
To view unit information, note the unit code and search for the unit in
Unit Outlines
.
Practical Experience
Students are required to complete a 1 year internship in the second year of the program. A minimum of 80 hours of counselling is required in order to graduate. 40 of those hours must be conducted as face to face counselling hours.
Professional Registration
Upon graduation, students will be able to apply for provisional registration with the Psychotherapy and Counselling Federation of Australia (PACFA) or apply for membership with the Australian Counselling Association or the Australian Christian Counsellors Association.
This course does meet the current requirements of the PACFA and an application for this course to be accredited with PACFA will be lodged in due course.
Career Opportunities
Successful completion of the Master of Counselling will allow the student to be industry ready and to seek employment in counselling or counselling related position such as:
School counselling
Gambling counselling
Private practice
Telephone counselling
Relationship counselling
Drug and alcohol counselling
Welfare and youth work counselling
Scholarships →
Want to reduce the cost of your study? We offer a range of scholarships and grants. View all available
Fees →
You may be eligible for a Fee-Help loan. Commonwealth Supported Place offers are available for some courses.
Enquiries
Phone:
+61 2 4980 2377
Email:
study@avondale.edu.au
Monday-Thursday, 9.00am-5pm
Friday, 9.00am-12.00noon
Apply Now →
Find another course →
ASK A QUESTION
LIVE CHAT
CALL
Ask a question
"
*
" indicates required fields
Student type:
*
Select...
Domestic (Australia or New Zealand)
International
Personal Details
Your Name
*
First Name
Family Name/Surname:
Mobile Phone Number:
*
Email Address:
*
Email Address
Confirm Email Address
I am..
*
Select...
a High School Student
a Parent/Guardian
a Teacher
looking at postgraduate study
other
Current School Year:
*
Select...
Year 12
Year 11
Year 10
Year 9
Other
I am interested in:
*
Select...
Arts (Chaplaincy, Communications, Counselling, English, History, Music, Psychology, Visual Art)
Business
Individual Support
Lifestyle Medicine
Ministry & Theology
Nursing
Outdoor Leadership
Science
Research Degrees
Teaching
Unsure/Other
How did you hear about us?
*
Select...
At School
Bus Advertisement
Career Expos
Church/Church Big Camps
Good Universities Guide
Google
Printed material (course guide, leaflet, brochure)
Radio
Record Magazine
Social Media (Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIN)
UAC website
Word of Mouth (friends, family, teachers)
Other
Your message:
*
CAPTCHA
search
close
chevron-right
chevron-down
facebook-square
bars
instagram
apartment
pencil
license
bookmark
chevron-down
checkmark-circle
linkedin
facebook
pinterest
youtube
rss
twitter
instagram
facebook-blank
rss-blank
linkedin-blank
pinterest
youtube
twitter
instagram
Notifications


Initial deposit for All Programs $15,664

Annual fee for All Programs is $31,328


English Language Requirements All Department is different choose 1:
Arts
IELTS: 6.5 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 79 (minimum score of 20 in reading, listening, and speaking, and 24 in writing)
PTE: 58 (no communicative score less than 50)
Business
IELTS: 6.5 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 79 (minimum score of 20 in reading, listening, and speaking, and 24 in writing)
PTE: 58 (no communicative score less than 50)
Teaching (B-12yrs, Primary, Secondary)
IELTS: 7.5 (no score below 7.0 in any area, and 8.0 in speaking and listening)
TOEFL iBT: Not specified
PTE: Not specified
Ministry & Theology
IELTS: 6.0 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 60 (minimum scores: 15 in listening, 15 in reading, 21 in writing, 18 in speaking)
PTE: 50 (no communicative score less than 50)
Nursing
IELTS: 7.0 (no sub-band below 7.0)
TOEFL iBT: 94 (minimum scores: 24 in listening, 24 in reading, 27 in writing, 23 in speaking)
PTE: 65 (minimum score of 65 in each communicative skill)


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate Programs
Higher Secondary School Certificate plus successful completion of one year full-time equivalent of a Bachelor degree at a recognised/accredited university.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs
The minimum academic entry requirements for postgraduate applicants is successful completion of a recognised Bachelor degree equivalent to an Australian degree.
