Link: https://www.avondale.edu.au/course/undergraduate-certificate-in-science/

Current Students
Staff
Library
Alumni
News & Events
CURRENT STUDENTS
STAFF
LIBRARY
ALUMNI
NEWS & EVENTS
DONATE
YOUR UNI
STUDY
RESEARCH
YOUR UNI
Who We Are
Our Purpose
History
Learning & Teaching
Rankings & Achievements
Faculty & Schools
Academic Integrity
Campuses
CASTL
Venue & Facility Hire
STUDENT LIFE
Support Services
Accommodation
Spiritual Life
Student Associations
Sport & Fitness
FOLLOW US ONLINE
COURSES
Nursing
Teaching
Business
Ministry
Arts
Counselling
Lifestyle Medicine
Science & Mathematics
Postgraduate Courses
Higher Degrees by Research
Vocational Education Training
Short Courses
NEW STUDENTS
Apply Now
Pathways
Not sure what to study?
Early Entry
Fees & costs
Scholarships
International Students
Units Offered
RESEARCH AT AVONDALE
Research Integrity & Ethics
Strategy & Performance
Research Training & Support
RESEARCH CENTRES
Christian Education
Lifestyle Medicine & Health
Scripture, Spirituality & Society
PUBLICATIONS
Research Repository
Reporting Your Publications
TEACH Journal
PARTNER ENTITIES
EGW Research Centre
Adventist Heritage Centre
Australasian Research Institute
ENQUIRE NOW →
Undergraduate Certificate in Science
Why study with us?
The Undergraduate Certificate in Science is a pathway into science focused university degrees. This course centres around biology, chemistry, physics and environmental issues and gives students the flexibility to structure their studies around personal areas of interest. Through field work, industry experience and laboratory programs, students can expand their knowledge and develop technical skills.
As a tertiary pathway, this certificate can lead into our Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Teaching and Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Teaching programs.
Key Information
Study Mode:
On campus
Location:
Lake Macquarie
Duration:
Full-time: 0.5 year
Course Code:
4046
CRICOS Code:
APPLY NOW
Course Details
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the Undergraduate Certificate in Science, graduates will be able to:
demonstrate a sound grasp of the factual and conceptual bases undergirding a range of scientific discipline areas and an ability to focus these bases for the solution of field and laboratory problems;
demonstrate interdisciplinary skills and an awareness of their importance;
display effective oral, written, and graphic communication skills;
demonstrate collaborative skills conducive to effective teamwork;
demonstrate a capacity for both independent and cooperative engagement with new thought, which will facilitate lifelong learning;
demonstrate an integrated personal philosophy of science, informed by both a thoroughly Christian worldview and an awareness of the historical, philosophical and cultural context of science;
demonstrate a strong professional ethic, evidenced by an acceptance of the responsibilities within the practice of science, as outlined by professional societies and as dictated by wider societal concerns, such as environment, safety and health.
demonstrate the laboratory skills required for the collection of scientific data and also the information technology skills required for accessing, analysing and presenting these data;
Admission Criteria
There are many options for satisfying the entry requirements for our courses. An applicant needs to meet at least one of the following entry requirements to be given an offer to study at Avondale.
I have completed my secondary education in Australia or New Zealand and achieved:
a selection rank of at least 45. A selection rank is calculated as the ATAR plus any
adjustment factors
that may be applicable;
or
a minimum of 24 points in the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma;
or
New Zealand Year 13 NCEA Level 3 results, identifying university entrance attainment;
or
an appropriate score in the
uniTEST and the Tertiary Online Written Assessment
;
or
an appropriate score in the
Skills for Tertiary Admissions Test
(STAT)*
or
the International Big Picture Learning Credential.
*Applicants must not be a current year 12 (or equivalent) student and must be 18 years or older at the time of commencing their course.
I have completed a Vocational education and training (VET) course in Australia or New Zealand and achieved:
an Australian Certificate IV,
or
an equivalent New Zealand certificate, as approved by the Director, Student Administration Services.
I have already attended university in Australia or New Zealand and:
successfully completed at least 2 units of a Bachelor’s degree
or
completed a bridging or enabling course, or another recognised tertiary preparation course;
or
successfully completed at least three units of Avondale’s Undergraduate Certificate in University Preparation.
I have completed my secondary education or higher education qualification overseas:
refer to the
Admission Policy (HE)
for specific information regarding both the minimum academic entry standards (Appendix 1) and the English language proficiency requirements (Appendix 2).
I have other work and life experience:
If a Senior Secondary Certificate has not been completed, an eligible applicant may sit an admission test (
uniTEST and TOWA or the Skills for Tertiary Admission Test
).
In exceptional circumstances, an applicant may be admitted based on equivalent qualifications or work and life experience as assessed by the Course Convenor or delegate and/or the DVC Academic.
International Students
This course is not available to international students.
English Language Requirements
Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate English language proficiency by achieving a minimum overall IELTS score of 7.5, with a minimum score of 7.0 in reading and writing, and a minimum score of 8.0 in listening and speaking.
Advanced Standing
Applicants who have completed prior study may be eligible for advanced standing (credit recognition). Applicants should discuss their eligibility for advanced standing with the Admissions Team or the Course Convenor.
Course Structure
The Undergraduate Certificate in Science consists of 4 six credit point units (24 credit points) studied for one semester full-time, or part-time equivalent. These four units can be chosen from the table below.
Units Offered
Unit
Semester
Prerequisite/s
BIOL15000 Introductory Biology
1
HSC Biology recommended
BIOL15100 The Diversity of Life
2
HSC Biology recommended
CHEM16300 General Chemistry
1 and 2*
None
CHEM16000 Chemistry IA
1
HSC Chemistry or its equivalent
CHEM16100 Chemistry IB
2
HSC Chemistry or its equivalent
DTFN11100 Food, Nutrition and Health
1
None
GEOH11000 Responding to Global Issues
1
None
GEOH12000 Environmental Issues
2
None
MATH16400 General Mathematics
1 and 2*
None
MATH16000 Mathematics IA
1
HSC Extension 1 Mathematics or its equivalent
MATH16100 Mathematics IB
2
MATH16000
PHYS16300 General Physics
1*
HSC 2 unit science area of study, plus HSC mathematics
* CHEM16300, PHYS16300 and MATH16400 availability must be confirmed with the Course Convenor.
Second year units are also available for those who have completed previous units in science. Since the Undergraduate Certificate in Science is a flexible pathway, potential students should contact the Course Convenor to gain approval for their unit selection.
To find out more about any of the units listed here, copy the unit code and then search for that unit
here
.
To view unit information, note the unit code and search for the unit in
Unit Outlines
.
Career Opportunities
Graduates will receive full credit towards the following Avondale degree/s:
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Teaching
Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Teaching
The Undergraduate Certificate in Science can also help strengthen the careers of current teachers who are wanting to expand their range of teaching areas, as well as provide general career opportunities in the science field.
Scholarships →
Want to reduce the cost of your study? We offer a range of scholarships and grants. View all available
Fees →
You may be eligible for a Fee-Help loan. Commonwealth Supported Place offers are available for some courses.
Enquiries
Phone:
+61 2 4980 2377
Email:
study@avondale.edu.au
Monday-Thursday, 9.00am-5pm
Friday, 9.00am-12.00noon
Apply Now →
Find another course →
ASK A QUESTION
LIVE CHAT
CALL
Ask a question
"
*
" indicates required fields
Student type:
*
Select...
Domestic (Australia or New Zealand)
International
Personal Details
Your Name
*
First Name
Family Name/Surname:
Mobile Phone Number:
*
Email Address:
*
Email Address
Confirm Email Address
I am..
*
Select...
a High School Student
a Parent/Guardian
a Teacher
looking at postgraduate study
other
Current School Year:
*
Select...
Year 12
Year 11
Year 10
Year 9
Other
I am interested in:
*
Select...
Arts (Chaplaincy, Communications, Counselling, English, History, Music, Psychology, Visual Art)
Business
Individual Support
Lifestyle Medicine
Ministry & Theology
Nursing
Outdoor Leadership
Science
Research Degrees
Teaching
Unsure/Other
How did you hear about us?
*
Select...
At School
Bus Advertisement
Career Expos
Church/Church Big Camps
Good Universities Guide
Google
Printed material (course guide, leaflet, brochure)
Radio
Record Magazine
Social Media (Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIN)
UAC website
Word of Mouth (friends, family, teachers)
Other
Your message:
*
CAPTCHA
search
close
chevron-right
chevron-down
facebook-square
bars
instagram
pencil
bookmark
chevron-down
checkmark-circle
linkedin
facebook
pinterest
youtube
rss
twitter
instagram
facebook-blank
rss-blank
linkedin-blank
pinterest
youtube
twitter
instagram
Notifications


Initial deposit for All Programs $15,664

Annual fee for All Programs is $31,328


English Language Requirements All Department is different choose 1:
Arts
IELTS: 6.5 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 79 (minimum score of 20 in reading, listening, and speaking, and 24 in writing)
PTE: 58 (no communicative score less than 50)
Business
IELTS: 6.5 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 79 (minimum score of 20 in reading, listening, and speaking, and 24 in writing)
PTE: 58 (no communicative score less than 50)
Teaching (B-12yrs, Primary, Secondary)
IELTS: 7.5 (no score below 7.0 in any area, and 8.0 in speaking and listening)
TOEFL iBT: Not specified
PTE: Not specified
Ministry & Theology
IELTS: 6.0 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 60 (minimum scores: 15 in listening, 15 in reading, 21 in writing, 18 in speaking)
PTE: 50 (no communicative score less than 50)
Nursing
IELTS: 7.0 (no sub-band below 7.0)
TOEFL iBT: 94 (minimum scores: 24 in listening, 24 in reading, 27 in writing, 23 in speaking)
PTE: 65 (minimum score of 65 in each communicative skill)


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate Programs
Higher Secondary School Certificate plus successful completion of one year full-time equivalent of a Bachelor degree at a recognised/accredited university.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs
The minimum academic entry requirements for postgraduate applicants is successful completion of a recognised Bachelor degree equivalent to an Australian degree.
