Link: https://www.avondale.edu.au/course/undergraduate-certificate-in-university-preparation/

Current Students
Staff
Library
Alumni
News & Events
CURRENT STUDENTS
STAFF
LIBRARY
ALUMNI
NEWS & EVENTS
DONATE
YOUR UNI
STUDY
RESEARCH
YOUR UNI
Who We Are
Our Purpose
History
Learning & Teaching
Rankings & Achievements
Faculty & Schools
Academic Integrity
Campuses
CASTL
Venue & Facility Hire
STUDENT LIFE
Support Services
Accommodation
Spiritual Life
Student Associations
Sport & Fitness
FOLLOW US ONLINE
COURSES
Nursing
Teaching
Business
Ministry
Arts
Counselling
Lifestyle Medicine
Science & Mathematics
Postgraduate Courses
Higher Degrees by Research
Vocational Education Training
Short Courses
NEW STUDENTS
Apply Now
Pathways
Not sure what to study?
Early Entry
Fees & costs
Scholarships
International Students
Units Offered
RESEARCH AT AVONDALE
Research Integrity & Ethics
Strategy & Performance
Research Training & Support
RESEARCH CENTRES
Christian Education
Lifestyle Medicine & Health
Scripture, Spirituality & Society
PUBLICATIONS
Research Repository
Reporting Your Publications
TEACH Journal
PARTNER ENTITIES
EGW Research Centre
Adventist Heritage Centre
Australasian Research Institute
ENQUIRE NOW →
Undergraduate Certificate in University Preparation
Why study with us?
The Undergraduate Certificate in University Preparation is a free tertiary pathway into university. It is for school leavers with no ATAR, and those who have not achieved an entry-level ATAR. It is also suitable for mature-aged students seeking an alternate entry into a bachelor’s degree.
With one-on-one support, students will develop tertiary literacy skills, particularly written, verbal and communication skills, and general academic skills that will prepare them for university and beyond.
Key Information
Study Mode:
On campus
Location:
Lake Macquarie, Sydney
Duration:
Full-time: 0.5 year, Part-time: Equivalent years
Course Code:
4966
CRICOS Code:
111574E
APPLY NOW
Course Details
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the Undergraduate Certificate in University Preparation, graduates will be able to:
demonstrate skills and literacies appropriate for further education.
demonstrate knowledge and concepts with depth in the chosen areas of learning;
demonstrate effective research and communication skills and the capacity to analyse, solve problems, evaluate and respond critically to information and ideas from a range of sources;
work effectively with others, demonstrating initiative and independence as well as a capacity to function collegially;
demonstrate an informed respect for individual worth, cultural and social diversity, and environmental sustainability;
demonstrate the capacity to make ethical decisions that are linked to Christian values;
Admission Criteria
There are many options for satisfying the entry requirements for our courses. An applicant needs to meet at least one of the following entry requirements to be given an offer to study at Avondale.
I have completed my secondary education in Australia or New Zealand and achieved:
a selection rank of at least 45. A selection rank is calculated as the ATAR plus any
adjustment factors
that may be applicable;
or
a minimum of 24 points in the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma;
or
New Zealand Year 13 NCEA Level 3 results, identifying university entrance attainment;
or
an appropriate score in the
uniTEST and the Tertiary Online Written Assessment
;
or
an appropriate score in the
Skills for Tertiary Admissions Test
(STAT)*
or
the International Big Picture Learning Credential,
or
a Senior Secondary Certificate (with no ATAR).
*Applicants must not be a current year 12 (or equivalent) student and must be 18 years or older at the time of commencing their course.
I have completed a Vocational education and training (VET) course in Australia or New Zealand and achieved:
an Australian Certificate III,
or
an equivalent New Zealand certificate, as approved by the Director, Student Administration Services.
I have already attended university in Australia or New Zealand and:
successfully completed at least 2 units of a Bachelor’s degree
or
completed a bridging or enabling course, or another recognised tertiary preparation course;
or
successfully completed at least three units of Avondale’s Undergraduate Certificate in University Preparation.
I have completed my secondary education or higher education qualification overseas:
refer to the
Admission Policy (HE)
for specific information regarding both the minimum academic entry standards (Appendix 1) and the English language proficiency requirements (Appendix 2).
I have other work and life experience:
If a Senior Secondary Certificate has not been completed, an eligible applicant may sit an admission test (
uniTEST and TOWA or the Skills for Tertiary Admission Test
).
In exceptional circumstances, an applicant may be admitted based on equivalent qualifications or work and life experience as assessed by the Course Convenor or delegate and/or the DVC Academic.
International Students
This course is available to international students who meet the Australian government requirements for a student visa to reside in Australia for the duration of the course. For information regarding visas refer to
https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/study
.
English Language Requirements
Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate English language proficiency through one of the following:
achieving the IELTS score required for the course the applicant plans to study on successful completion of the Undergraduate Certificate in University Preparation,
or
one of the other ways outlined in Appendix 2 of the
Admission Policy (HE)
for the course the applicant plans to study on successful completion of the Undergraduate Certificate in University Preparation.
Advanced Standing
Applicants who have completed prior study may be eligible for advanced standing (credit recognition). Applicants should discuss their eligibility for advanced standing with the Admissions Team or the Course Convenor.
Course Structure
Depending on the units chosen, it is possible for students to receive full credit into most Avondale degrees including Teaching, Arts, Business, Ministry and Theology, and partial credit into Nursing. Therefore, it is important for students to select elective units that will transfer into their planned degree. For assistance, contact the Course Convenor.
For students commencing Semester 1
WHPE10101
Foundations of Wellbeing
ARTS11110
The Art of Scholarship
Elective
in proposed area of study at 100 level
Elective
in proposed area of study at 100 level
For students commencing Semester 2
GSTL15000
Tertiary Writing
ARTS11100
Interpreting Media Messages
Elective
in proposed area of study at 100 level
Elective
in proposed area of study at 100 level
To find out more about any of the units listed here, copy the unit code and then search for that unit
here
.
To view unit information, note the unit code and search for the unit in
Unit Outlines
.
Career Opportunities
Undergraduate Certificate in University Preparation graduates receive guaranteed entry and credit into an Avondale undergraduate degree after the successful completion of a minimum of three units.
Scholarships →
Want to reduce the cost of your study? We offer a range of scholarships and grants. View all available
Fees →
You may be eligible for a Fee-Help loan. Commonwealth Supported Place offers are available for some courses.
Enquiries
Phone:
+61 2 4980 2377
Email:
study@avondale.edu.au
Monday-Thursday, 9.00am-5pm
Friday, 9.00am-12.00noon
Apply Now →
Find another course →
ASK A QUESTION
LIVE CHAT
CALL
Ask a question
"
*
" indicates required fields
Student type:
*
Select...
Domestic (Australia or New Zealand)
International
Personal Details
Your Name
*
First Name
Family Name/Surname:
Mobile Phone Number:
*
Email Address:
*
Email Address
Confirm Email Address
I am..
*
Select...
a High School Student
a Parent/Guardian
a Teacher
looking at postgraduate study
other
Current School Year:
*
Select...
Year 12
Year 11
Year 10
Year 9
Other
I am interested in:
*
Select...
Arts (Chaplaincy, Communications, Counselling, English, History, Music, Psychology, Visual Art)
Business
Individual Support
Lifestyle Medicine
Ministry & Theology
Nursing
Outdoor Leadership
Science
Research Degrees
Teaching
Unsure/Other
How did you hear about us?
*
Select...
At School
Bus Advertisement
Career Expos
Church/Church Big Camps
Good Universities Guide
Google
Printed material (course guide, leaflet, brochure)
Radio
Record Magazine
Social Media (Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIN)
UAC website
Word of Mouth (friends, family, teachers)
Other
Your message:
*
CAPTCHA
search
close
chevron-right
chevron-down
facebook-square
bars
instagram
pencil
bookmark
chevron-down
checkmark-circle
linkedin
facebook
pinterest
youtube
rss
twitter
instagram
facebook-blank
rss-blank
linkedin-blank
pinterest
youtube
twitter
instagram
Notifications


Initial deposit for All Programs $15,664

Annual fee for All Programs is $31,328


English Language Requirements All Department is different choose 1:
Arts
IELTS: 6.5 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 79 (minimum score of 20 in reading, listening, and speaking, and 24 in writing)
PTE: 58 (no communicative score less than 50)
Business
IELTS: 6.5 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 79 (minimum score of 20 in reading, listening, and speaking, and 24 in writing)
PTE: 58 (no communicative score less than 50)
Teaching (B-12yrs, Primary, Secondary)
IELTS: 7.5 (no score below 7.0 in any area, and 8.0 in speaking and listening)
TOEFL iBT: Not specified
PTE: Not specified
Ministry & Theology
IELTS: 6.0 (no sub-band below 6.0)
TOEFL iBT: 60 (minimum scores: 15 in listening, 15 in reading, 21 in writing, 18 in speaking)
PTE: 50 (no communicative score less than 50)
Nursing
IELTS: 7.0 (no sub-band below 7.0)
TOEFL iBT: 94 (minimum scores: 24 in listening, 24 in reading, 27 in writing, 23 in speaking)
PTE: 65 (minimum score of 65 in each communicative skill)


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate Programs
Higher Secondary School Certificate plus successful completion of one year full-time equivalent of a Bachelor degree at a recognised/accredited university.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs
The minimum academic entry requirements for postgraduate applicants is successful completion of a recognised Bachelor degree equivalent to an Australian degree.
