Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/aging-studies/graduate/aging-studies-graduate-certificate/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Aging Studies
Graduate Programs
Aging Studies, Graduate Certificate
Aging Studies Section
Aging Studies
Aging Studies Scholarships and Financial Assistance
Aging Studies Faculty Lectures
Aging Studies Faculty and Staff
Contact Aging Studies
Aging Studies (GC)
Aging Studies focuses on leadership, program administration and policy development. The goal is to develop transformational leaders who are a force for positive social change in their communities and organizations. This program is designed to support the ability of working professionals to meet their educational goals without disrupting their careers.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
15 / 15
Locations
Mankato
Apply
The Aging Studies Graduate program is suspended while a significant program redesign is underway. We are not accepting applications at this time.
Gainful Employment Program Information
The Minnesota State System makes available data for some of Minnesota State Mankato's undergraduate and graduate certificate programs. Information includes: program length, program costs, students borrowing money, licensure requirements, college scorecard and additional information.
Program Report
View Admission Requirements
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
GERO 550
Innovations in Aging Policy
3 credits
Engaging with the practice of policy development, understanding critical policies impacting the experience of aging, and learning how to become a policy entrepreneur will be the focus for this course. The course will also explore innovations in aging policy globally.
Prerequisites:
none
GERO 600
Gerontology Theory and Practice
3 credits
This course will provide students with an integrated knowledge of theory and practice in gerontology and examine the challenges involved in studying and providing services to the elderly, as well as ethical and advocacy-related issues in an aging society.
Prerequisites:
none
GERO 603
Transformational Leadership in Aging
3 credits
This course will focus upon the critical examination of leadership in the context of organizations serving older populations. The course will include exploration of decisions, processes and ideas exhibited by transformational leaders in aging in the US and globally.
Prerequisites:
none
SOC 517
Program Administration
3 credits
Implications of sociological knowledge for the administration of Human Services programs. Theoretical and practical aspects of administration with the social service systems.
Prerequisites:
none
SOC 566
Program Planning and Evaluation
3 credits
This course will address theoretical and practical aspects of the planning and evaluation process within social service systems. Evidence-based methods of developing programs and measuring their effectiveness in the human services will be addressed.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
