Link: https://cob.mnsu.edu/academics/agriculture/agribusiness--food-innovation-minor/

College of Business
Academic Programs
AgriBusiness and Food Innovation Program
AgriBusiness and Food Innovation Minor
AgriBusiness and Food Innovation Minor Section
AgriBusiness and Food Innovation Minor
Advising
College of Business registration, forms, policies, advising sessions and more.
More info
Agribusiness and Food Innovation Minor
The Agribusiness and Food Innovation Minor prepares individuals to work and innovate in agribusiness, food, and agriculturally-related businesses.  The minor includes awareness of the legal, marketing, and financial aspects of business development and culminates in an internship or capstone experience in agriculture.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
16
Locations
Mankato
Apply
ADVANTAGES OF THE AGRIBUSINESS & FOOD INNOVATION MINOR
Gain broad knowledge of the agriculture and food industries
Development of business accumen
Increased innovative mindset
Exposure to numerous companies in agribusiness
Located in the GreenSeam – heart of agriculture
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
BLAW 471
Technology and Intellectual Property Law
3 credits
This class examines major intellectual property legal issues particularly as they apply to business, technology, innovation and digital media. Topics covered include patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, intellectual property crime, free speech, the internet and social media, innovation and other emerging issues.
Prerequisites:
none
MGMT 332
Creativity and Innovation
3 credits
This course is designed to develop a students personal creativity and help a student identify the process of organizational innovation. The course is comprised of a combination of short lecture, in-class discussion of readings and videos, writing assignments, an elevator pitch and group activities.
Prerequisites:
none
MGMT 360
AgriBusiness in the Modern Economy
3 credits
This course examines basic business concepts and principles and their application to modern and future agriculture industries. Agribusiness topics covered include commodities, supply chain, finance, sales, accounting, law, engineering, food safety, healthcare, data analysis, and technology. Professionals in the agriculture industry will be brought into class to explain how business knowledge and skills are essential to various sectors; including but not limited to: livestock, poultry, corn/soybeans, bio-fuels, engineering, and natural resources. Students will have an opportunity to broaden their thinking, understanding, and professional potential as related to the agriculture industry while interacting with industry professionals.
Prerequisites:
none
MGMT 443
Entrepreneurship: New Venture Growth
3 credits
This course focuses on startup and post-startup venture activities. Students who have achieved proof of concept with a venture idea will find this course helpful. Students will learn to evolve a business model concept into a sustainable, scalable venture in a variety of business sectors. Topics discussed include business operations, analysis, entrepreneurial finance, growth, and exit strategies. Students will also learn to present their venture ideas to interested stakeholders. The course will allow students to have the opportunity to engage with business professionals and entrepreneurs.
Prerequisites:
none
MGMT 496
Internship
4 credits
Supervised experience in agribusiness or food related organizations, industry, state, or federal institutions.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
