Link: https://ahn.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/communication-sciences-and-disorders/american-sign-language-certificate/

College of Allied Health and Nursing
Academic Programs
Communication Sciences and Disorders
American Sign Language Certificate
Communication Sciences and Disorders Section
Communication Sciences and Disorders
About Communication Sciences and Disorders
Communication Sciences and Disorders, BS
Communication Sciences and Disorders, MS
Minor in Communication Sciences and Disorders
American Sign Language Certificate
Communication Sciences and Disorders, Post-Baccalaureate
American Sign Language (CERT)
The certificate signifies students have reached a minimum level of proficiency in American Sign Language and Deaf Studies.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
16 / 16
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Major Common Core
CDIS 205
Beginning American Sign Language - Level I
3 credits
Beginning ASL - Level I aims to develop a basic understanding and use of American Sign Language through learning parameters of sign, fingerspelling, basic grammar and a basic understanding of Deaf culture.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-11
CDIS 306
Intermediate American Sign Language - Level II
3 credits
Intermediate American Sign Language - Level II builds off knowledge and skills obtained in Level I. Expands on understanding and use of more complex grammar, classifiers, and social conversation.
Prerequisites:
none
CDIS 307
Advanced I American Sign Language - Level III
3 credits
Advanced I American Sign Language - Level III involves more extensive use of classifers, labeling, social conversation and increased ability to be fluent, smooth and have confidence and flow in signing.
Prerequisites:
none
CDIS 308
Conversations in American Sign Language
1 credits
This course is a repeatable, 1 credit course for students who would like to continue to use and maintain their conversational language skills in American Sign Language (ASL). It is highly recommended that students have at least a basic understanding and use of ASL (Level II).
Prerequisites:
none
CDIS 404
Deaf Studies: Deaf Culture, History and Social Justice
3 credits
This course will explore the language, culture, history, and contemporary issues of American Deaf people. Utilizing readings, lecture, and group discussion; students will learn about the linguistic and cultural aspect, oppression, timeline of deaf history, communication strategies and their effectiveness in terms of learning a language, as well as issues that are still existing in the deaf community.
Prerequisites:
none
CDIS 407
Advanced II American Sign Language - Level IV
3 credits
This course is a continuation of Advanced knowledge in American Sign Language. Fluent, social and academic use and understanding of sign language will be explored as well as continued expansion of knowledge of Deaf Culture and Deaf Community.
Prerequisites:
CDIS 306, CDS 307Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
