Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/applied-leadership/applied-leadership-bs/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Applied Leadership Online
Applied Leadership, BS
Applied Leadership Online Section
Applied Leadership Online
Applied Leadership, BS
What Students Are Saying
In The Media
Applied Leadership Faculty and Staff
Contact Applied Leadership
Applied Leadership (BS)
An online major connecting theory with real-world application.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Bachelor of Science
Major /                                         Total Credits
48 / 120
Locations
Online
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Major Common Core
AOS 301
Introduction to Applied Leadership
3 credits
Topics include world economics and their implications for the labor force, critical and creative thinking, leadership, and portfolio assessment. Required for admission to the Applied Organizational Studies program.
Prerequisites:
none
AOS 488
Professional Studies Portfolio
2 credits
Capstone project in which the student creates a portfolio that demonstrates the student's achievement in the core competencies of the program. Portfolio to be presented to a committee.
Prerequisites:
AOS 301
Major Restricted Electives
Communication in Organizations (choose 12 credits) Any discipline 300-499 Specific courses arranged with student's advisory committee.
Critical Thinking and Decision-Making in Organizations (choose 12 credits) Any discipline 300-499 Specific courses arranged with student's advisory committee.
Leadership in Organizations (choose 12 credits) Any discipline 300-499 Specific courses arranged with student's advisory committee.
Area of Concentration (choose 7-8 credits) Any discipline 300-499 Specific courses are in a single discipline arranged with the student's advisory committee.
Minor
No minor is required.Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
