Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/art/art-degree-programs/art-program/degrees/art-ma/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Art & Design
Art & Design Degree Programs
Studio Art Program
Studio Art Program Degrees
Art, Master of Arts (MA)
Art & Design Section
Art & Design
University Art Galleries
Student Resources
Art & Design Faculty & Staff
Follow Art & Design
Art (MA)
Art MA emphasizes specialized involvement in the student's chosen studio area – ceramics, drawing, graphic design, installation, painting, photography, printmaking, or sculpture. Most students focus on the research and development of creative work that culminates in a public exhibition or presentation as an alternative to the traditional written thesis (an option). The graduate advisor and committee will assist in establishing the presentation form and appropriate supporting documentation.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Master of Arts
Major /                                         Total Credits
30 / 30
Locations
Mankato
Accreditation
NASAD
National Association of Schools of Art and Design
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
ART 690
Graduate Review
1 credits
Focusing on verbal and written articulation of critiquing skills, the Graduate Review will hold a Portfolio Review critique each semester. Critiques will provide a structured forum with faculty, fellow students, visiting artists, and curators to identify and articulate what they want to express. In each of the four semesters of the MA program, students participate in the Graduate Review course. Learning to express concerns, issues, and motivations, as well as the best strategies to do so, will form the basis of their research and practice. Analytical and evaluative skills develop as students gain experience critiquing and questioning their peers.
Prerequisites:
none
Research/Methods Course(s)
ART 601
Introduction to Research in Art
3 credits
Introduction to the modes of research appropriate to art including creative research studies and investigative thesis research.
Prerequisites:
none
Restricted Electives
Choose 24 Credit.
Art History
- Choose 3 - 6 Credit(s). Choose any 500 level Art History courses
ART 500 - 599
credits
Prerequisites:
none
Art Studio
- Choose 15 - 18 Credit(s).
ART 500 - 699
credits
Prerequisites:
none
Related (non-art) Electives
- Choose 2 - 8 Credit(s). Choose any 5/600 level related elective courses
Any Discipline 500 - 699
credits
Prerequisites:
none
Capstone Course
ART 699
Graduate Exhibition and Defense
3-6 credits
Required of all candidates of the MA degree, this course is culmination of the previous sequential graduate studio blocks and reviews. Concepts developed will result in a body of work that constitutes the graduate exhibition or presentation. An oral defense of the ideas presented in the exhibition or presentation is required. Documentation will be submitted by the MA candidate and will become part of the Department of Art & Design¿s files. The candidate will also create and submit appropriate announcements, posters, and descriptions for public relations.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
