Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/art/art-degree-programs/art-program/degrees/art-minor/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Art & Design
Art & Design Degree Programs
Studio Art Program
Studio Art Program Degrees
Art, Studio Minor
Art & Design Section
Art & Design
University Art Galleries
Student Resources
Art & Design Faculty & Staff
Apply to the University
Art Studio Minor
Art Studio offers a foundation of knowledge and skills in the arts and allows for broad choice of study areas and/or more intensive study of one medium. Students take courses in ceramics, drawing, installation, painting, photography, printmaking, and sculpture.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
18
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
ART 110
Drawing Foundations
3 credits
Introduction to traditional drawing techniques and concepts.
Prerequisites:
none
Restricted Electives
Choose 3 Credit(s).
ART 100
Elements and Principles of Art
3 credits
2-D visual problem solving and art-making strategies using the elements and principles of design. For elementary education majors and general education.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-06
ART 101
Design Foundations
3 credits
For art, art history and art education majors.
Prerequisites:
none
Unrestricted Electives
Choose 12 Credit(s). Select Art Studio courses in consultation with an art advisor.
ART 103 - 499
Select from Art Studio courses
credits
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
