Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/automotive-engineering-technology/automotive-engineering-technology-minor2/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Automotive Engineering Technology
Automotive Engineering Technology, Minor
Automotive Engineering Technology Section
Automotive Engineering Technology
Automotive Engineering Technology, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Automotive Engineering Technology, Minor
Automotive Engineering Technology, Master of Science (MS)
Automotive Engineering Technology Faculty and Staff
Automotive Engineering Technology Mission
Automotive Engineering Technology Outcomes
Automotive Engineering Technology Objectives
Automotive Engineering Technology Narrative
Automotive Engineering Minor
Automotive Engineering prepares students for careers in product research, design and development, manufacturing, and technical sales in the original equipment and aftermarket industries. Fields include passenger cars, trucks, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, vehicle emissions, safety, fuels and lubricants, construction, industrial, and agricultural equipment. Graduates from the program are currently working for original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), such as Cummins, Toro, General Motors, Polaris, John Deere, AGCO, and Ford along with aftermarket companies such as QA1, Bosch, and S&S Cycle.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
16
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
AE 102
Introduction to Automotive Engineering
1 credits
This course is designed to provide students new to the major an opportunity to explore issues relevant to the university, department, and career field. The goal is to provide an open forum for discussion about transitioning to college life, and to promote greater self-awareness, growth, and understanding as a scholar, individual, and global citizen. Over the course of the semester, the student will investigate college and department experiences holistically, which will allow them the ability to make informed decisions paving the way for a richer, fuller college career.
Prerequisites:
none
AE 160
Automotive Systems
4 credits
This course is centered on the theory, operation and service of the systems found in modern automobiles. Lectures and demonstrations cover the course topics and open lab sessions allow students to practice procedures on their own vehicles in the completion of course assignments.
Prerequisites:
none
AE 261
Automotive Driveability & Diagnosis
4 credits
This course focuses on the functionality of an engine's mechanical, ignition, fuel, and emission systems using a systems approach to diagnose problems. Test equipment used in the course includes: fuel and fuel system; emission system; ignition; and mechanical diagnostic equipment.
Prerequisites:
none
AE 262
Automotive Computers and Electronics
4 credits
This course is centered on the theory, components, and diagnostic procedures related to modern automobile electrical and electronic systems. The major emphasis of the course involves the computer, sensors, and actuators as used in vehicles to control the ignition, fuel, emission, ABS, and chassis systems.
Prerequisites:
EET 113, AE 160, AE 261
Unrestricted Electives
Choose 3 additional credits of AE/MFE coursesInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
