Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/Biology/biology-minor2/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Biology
Biology, Minor
Biology Section
Biology
Biology, BS Biomedical and Cellular Biology
Biology, BS Organismal Biology and Ecology
Biology, Minor
Biology, Master of Science (MS)
Biology Minor
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
17
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
BIOL 106
General Biology II
4 credits
Study of biological processes at the organismal level including a survey of life forms (viruses, bacteria, protists, fungi, plants, and animals), their evolution, and ecology. Laboratory and discussion sessions stress problem solving and experimental design.
Prerequisites:
none
BIOL 211
Genetics
4 credits
Introduction to genetic analysis. Topics covered will include those of both classical and modern genetics: population genetics, molecular genetics, genetic manipulation of organisms and selection. Central to this course will be the primacy of the trait as the object of genetics and the development/refinement of the concept of the gene. Lab included.Fall, Spring, Summer
Prerequisites:
BIOL 105, BIOL 106, and MATH 112
Choose 4 Credit(s).
BIOL 105
General Biology I
4 credits
Study of biological processes at the suborganismal level including cell chemistry, metabolism, reproduction, genetics, and complex tissue physiology. Laboratory and discussion sessions stress problem solving and experimental design.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-03
Electives
In addition to the course chosen from the list below add any 200-level or above biology course to total 17 credits in the minor.
Choose one course from the following four courses.
- Choose 4 Credit(s).
BIOL 215
General Ecology
4 credits
Principles of the study of relationships between organisms and the environment. Topics include flow of energy and materials, organism-level interactions, growth and evolution of populations, and community ecology. Field trips to prairie, lake, stream, and forest communities, training in data collection and analysis, use of equipment, and report writing. Lab included.
Prerequisites:
BIOL 105 and BIOL 106 or consent
BIOL 217
Plant Science
4 credits
Biology of plants including unique features of plant cells, life histories, metabolism, anatomy, physiology, and ecology. The course empathizes plants' remarkable adaptations to their environments, their diversity, and the vital roles they play in ecological interactions. For biology and environmental science majors and minors. Lab included.
Prerequisites:
BIOL 105 and BIOL 106 or consent
BIOL 220
Human Anatomy
4 credits
Systems approach to the structure of the human body. The course is designed for students majoring in biology or health related programs. Lab included.
Prerequisites:
none
BIOL 270
Microbiology
4 credits
An introduction to the general principles and methods used in the study of microorganisms. Lab included. Prereq: One BIOL course and one semester of chemistry from among CHEM 104, CHEM 106, CHEM 111, or CHEM 201. Fall, Spring, Summer
Prerequisites:
One BIOL course and one semester of chemistry from among CHEM 104, CHEM 106, CHEM 111, or CHEM 201
Goal Areas: GE-03Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
