Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/clinical/biology-bs-clinical-and-diagnostic-sciences-nuclear-medicine-technology/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences
Biology, BS Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences Nuclear Medicine Technology
College of Science, Engineering & Technology Section
College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Applied Statistics
Astronomy
Automotive Engineering Technology
Integrated Science and Technology
Biochemistry
Biology
Biotechnology
Chemistry
Civil Engineering
Computer Application Development
Computer Engineering
Computer Engineering Technology
Computer Information Technology
Computer Science
Construction Management
Electrical Engineering
Electronic Engineering Technology
Environmental Science
Food Science Technology
Geology
Global Solutions in Engineering and Technology
Health Informatics
Master of Science in Information Technology
Integrated Engineering
Iron Range Engineering
Management Information Systems
Manufacturing Engineering Technology
Mathematics
Mathematics and Statistics
Mathematics Teaching
Mechanical Engineering
Physics
Science Teaching (K-12)
Statistics
Twin Cities Engineering
Agricultural Science
Software Engineering
Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences
Biology, BS Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences Medical Laboratory Sciences
Biology, BS Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences Cytotechnology
Biology, BS Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences Nuclear Medicine Technology
Software Engineering
Dean's Welcome
Departments
CSET Advising Center
CSET Scholarships
News & Events
Scholarships
Partnerships and Centers
Connect with Us
Women In STEM
Engineers Week
Engineering Machine Design Contest
Southern Minnesota Regional Science & Engineering Fair
CSET Photo Gallery
Clinical and Diagnostic Sciences (BS)
Nuclear Medicine Technology
Nuclear Medicine Technology is a highly specialized allied healthcare field that utilizes radioactive materials in diagnosis, treatment of disease, and medical research. The four year Nuclear Medicine Technology Program curriculum consists of three years spent at the university completing required courses and electives. The fourth year is a 34 credit internship spent in professional education and experience. Agencies participating in the nuclear medicine technology program include, but are not limited to Mayo Clinic School of Health Sciences in Rochester, MN. Admission into the fourth year accredited program at Mayo Clinic School of Health Sciences is competitive. Therefore, admission to the program does not ensure placement into the fourth year internship. The BS degree is awarded by the university after successful completion of the internship year. Graduates will be eligible to take the professional certification examinations administered by the Nuclear Medicine Technology Certification Board and /or the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists. Nuclear medicine technologists are employed in a wide variety of clinical settings including large and small community hospitals, university affiliated teaching hospitals and medical centers, outpatient and research imaging facilities, as well as private institutes.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Bachelor of Science
Major /                                         Total Credits
75 / 120
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Required General Education
BIOL 105
General Biology I
4 credits
Study of biological processes at the suborganismal level including cell chemistry, metabolism, reproduction, genetics, and complex tissue physiology. Laboratory and discussion sessions stress problem solving and experimental design.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-03
CHEM 201
General Chemistry I
5 credits
Introduction to the basic principles of chemistry including atomic and molecular structure, bonding, chemical reactions, stoichiometry, thermodynamics and states of matter. Laboratory will reinforce lecture concepts. Prereq: C or higher in MATH 112 or the equivalent; high school chemistry or C or higher in CHEM 104
Prerequisites:
"C" (2.0) or higher in MATH 112 or the equivalent; high school chemistry or "C" (2.0) or higher in CHEM 104.
Goal Areas: GE-02, GE-03
MATH 121
Calculus I
4 credits
Limits, continuity, the derivative and applications, transcendental functions, L'Hopital's Rule, and development of the Riemann integral.
Prerequisites:
Satisfy Placement Table in this section, MATH 115 or both MATH 112 and MATH 113 with "C" (2.0) or better.
Goal Areas: GE-04
PHYS 211
Principles of Physics I
4 credits
General background in physical concepts for those who do not plan advanced study in physics or engineering. Topics include mechanics, fluids, heat and thermodynamics. Lecture and laboratory.
Prerequisites:
Either MATH 112 and MATH 113, or MATH 115
Goal Areas: GE-02, GE-03
Major Common Core
BIOL 106
General Biology II
4 credits
Study of biological processes at the organismal level including a survey of life forms (viruses, bacteria, protists, fungi, plants, and animals), their evolution, and ecology. Laboratory and discussion sessions stress problem solving and experimental design.
Prerequisites:
none
BIOL 211
Genetics
4 credits
Introduction to genetic analysis. Topics covered will include those of both classical and modern genetics: population genetics, molecular genetics, genetic manipulation of organisms and selection. Central to this course will be the primacy of the trait as the object of genetics and the development/refinement of the concept of the gene. Lab included.Fall, Spring, Summer
Prerequisites:
BIOL 105, BIOL 106, and MATH 112
BIOL 325
Principles of Human Anatomy
4 credits
Systems and regional approach to the structure of the human body. Primary emphasis on gross anatomy supported by 3-dimensional models and animal dissections, with additional emphasis on cell and tissue-level anatomy supported by histological examination. The course is designed for students majoring in biology programs. Lab included.
Prerequisites:
BIOL 105
BIOL 330
Principles of Human Physiology
4 credits
Principles of functions of human cells, organs, and systems with an emphasis on organ/system interactions. This course is designed for students majoring in biology, chemistry, or related sciences, and medically-related areas. Includes a laboratory with a research and medical emphasis.
Prerequisites:
BIOL 220, CHEM 104 or CHEM 106 or CHEM 111 or CHEM 201
CHEM 202
General Chemistry II
5 credits
Continuation of the basic principles of chemistry including properties of solutions, kinetics, acids and bases, equilibria, buffers, precipitation reactions, electron transfer reactions, electrochemistry, entropy and free energy. Laboratory will reinforce lecture concepts.
Prerequisites:
"C" (2.0) or higher in CHEM 201
Emphasis Common Core
CHEM 322
Organic Chemistry I
4 credits
Introduction to organic nomenclature, structure, bonding, chemical reactivity, organic acid-base reactions, mechanisms and stereochemistry. IR, MS, and NMR spectroscopy will be introduced. The chemistry of alkanes, alkyl halides, alkenes, alkynes, and alcohols will be covered. Laboratory illustrates synthetic techniques and the preparation and reactions of functional groups discussed during lecture.
Prerequisites:
CHEM 202, "C" (2.0) or higher in CHEM 202.
CHEM 360
Principles of Biochemistry
4 credits
Analysis of the structure and metabolism of biologically important compounds. This intermediate-level course is designed for students in the medical technology, food science, chemistry education, chemistry and pre-professional health majors. The laboratory teaches basic biochemical techniques.
Prerequisites:
CHEM 322. CHEM 324 is strongly recommended.
HLTH 321
Medical Terminology
3 credits
For health care personnel, emphasis on spelling, pronunciation and meaning.
Prerequisites:
none
PHYS 212
Principles of Physics II
4 credits
Includes waves and sound, electricity and magnetism, light and optics, and topics in modern physics. Lecture and laboratory.
Prerequisites:
PHYS 211
PHYS 417
Biophysics
2 credits
This course bridges the gap between introductory physics and its application to the life and biomedical sciences. Topics include fluid flow, membrane transport, nerve conduction, imaging methods including MRI, CT, and nuclear imaging, radiotherapy, and health physics.
Prerequisites:
MATH 121, PHYS 212 or PHYS 222
Emphasis Restricted Electives
Statistics Requirement
- Choose 3 - 4 Credit(s).
HLTH 475
Biostatistics
3 credits
Introduction to statistical analysis as applied to the health sciences. Examines concepts and methods of statistical procedures applied to health problems and issues.
Prerequisites:
MATH 110, STAT 154, Or any other mathematics course higher than MATH 110.
STAT 154
Elementary Statistics
4 credits
An introduction to statistical concepts and methods that is applicable to all disciplines. Topics include descriptive measures of data, probability and probability distributions, statistical inference, tests of hypotheses, confidence intervals, correlation, linear regression, and analysis of variance. The use of statistical software will be emphasized. Prereq: ACT Math sub-score of 19 or higher, successful completion of MATH 098 or appropriate placement scores (see Placement Information under Statistics) Fall, Spring, Summer GE-4
Prerequisites:
Satisfy Placement Table in this section, or MATH 098 with grade of P.
Goal Areas: GE-02, GE-04
Choose 34 Credit(s).
BIOL 487
Nuclear Medicine Technology Internship I
17 credits
The clinical internship and training include lectures, demonstrations, laboratory sessions, and clinical practicum in the area of nuclear medicine technology in affiliation with Mayo School of Health Sciences in Rochester, MN.
Prerequisites:
none
BIOL 488
Nuclear Medicine Technology Internship II
17 credits
The clinical internship and training include lectures, demonstrations, laboratory sessions, and clinical practicum in the area of nuclear medicine technology in affiliation with Mayo School of Health Sciences in Rochester, MN.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
