Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/Chemistry/chemistry-minor/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Chemistry
Chemistry, Minor
Chemistry Section
Chemistry
Chemistry, ACS Approved Bachelor of Science (BS)
Chemistry, Bachelor of Arts (BA)
Chemistry, Minor
Chemistry Faculty and Staff
Chemistry Minor
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
25
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
CHEM 201
General Chemistry I
5 credits
Introduction to the basic principles of chemistry including atomic and molecular structure, bonding, chemical reactions, stoichiometry, thermodynamics and states of matter. Laboratory will reinforce lecture concepts. Prereq: C or higher in MATH 112 or the equivalent; high school chemistry or C or higher in CHEM 104
Prerequisites:
"C" (2.0) or higher in MATH 112 or the equivalent; high school chemistry or "C" (2.0) or higher in CHEM 104.
Goal Areas: GE-02, GE-03
CHEM 202
General Chemistry II
5 credits
Continuation of the basic principles of chemistry including properties of solutions, kinetics, acids and bases, equilibria, buffers, precipitation reactions, electron transfer reactions, electrochemistry, entropy and free energy. Laboratory will reinforce lecture concepts.
Prerequisites:
"C" (2.0) or higher in CHEM 201
CHEM 305
Analytical Chemistry
4 credits
Introduction to the principles of chemical analysis, with emphasis on classical methods of analysis. Lectures will stress the theory of chemical measurements and sample handling. Laboratory exercises will provide students with opportunities to explore calibration methods, method development, and established procedures for volumetric and gravimetric analyses. Basic atomic spectroscopy is also presented.
Prerequisites:
"C" (2.0) or higher in CHEM 202
CHEM 322
Organic Chemistry I
4 credits
Introduction to organic nomenclature, structure, bonding, chemical reactivity, organic acid-base reactions, mechanisms and stereochemistry. IR, MS, and NMR spectroscopy will be introduced. The chemistry of alkanes, alkyl halides, alkenes, alkynes, and alcohols will be covered. Laboratory illustrates synthetic techniques and the preparation and reactions of functional groups discussed during lecture.
Prerequisites:
CHEM 202, "C" (2.0) or higher in CHEM 202.
CHEM 324
Organic Chemistry II
3 credits
This course is a continuation Chem 322 and includes organic nomenclature, structure, bonding, chemical reactivity, organic acid-base reactions, and reaction mechanisms; the chemistry of ethers, aromatic and heterocyclic compounds, polyenes, ketones, aldehydes, amines, carboxylic acids and their derivatives, and alpha carbonyl compounds and synthetic transformations is covered.
Prerequisites:
CHEM 322 with a "C" (2.0) or higher.
Electives
Choose a minimum of 4 credits from the 300-400 level CHEM courses except CHEM 479 or CHEM 489. Core courses cannot count as electives. A minimum of 4 credits of chemistry courses must be taken at Minnesota State University Mankato for the minor.Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
