Link: https://ed.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/counseling-student-personnel/college-student-affairs-gc/

College of Education
Academic Programs
Counseling & Student Personnel
College Student Affairs GC
Counseling & Student Personnel Section
Counseling & Student Personnel
Doctor of Education in Counselor Education and Supervision
Master of Science in Counseling and Student Personnel
Master of Science in College Student Affairs
Counseling & Student Personnel Accreditation
Faculty and Staff, Counseling and Student Personnel
Clinical Lab Facility
Student Support Pipeline Grant
College Student Affairs (GC)
The graduate certificate in College Student Affairs is designed for learners who have already earned a master’s degree in a different field or who have two years (full-time equivalent) of direct student affairs experience following the completion of their bachelor’s degree. The program curriculum for the graduate certificate is delivered 100% online, and focuses on student affairs administration and college student development through a social justice approach.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
12 / 12
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
CSP 620
Introduction to College Student Affairs in Higher Education
3 credits
Students will explore the functional areas represented by the student affairs profession and will examine current issues and problems facing student affairs and higher education. Philosophical and historical underpinnings of the student affairs profession will also be examined.
Prerequisites:
none
CSP 622
Administration and Finance in Student Affairs
3 credits
This course is designed to facilitate an understanding of current models and practices in the administration and finance of student affairs programs in higher education through a social justice framework. Models of planning and management, techniques related to budgeting and staffing, and current issues and trends in student affairs administration and finance are also explored.
Prerequisites:
none
CSP 662
College Student Development in the US
3 credits
This course is designed to facilitate an understanding of today's college students through various theoretical perspectives including social identity development (i.e., racial, ethnic, gender, sexual orientation, spiritual, disability, and social class) as well as psychological, intellectual, and moral development. Special focus will be paid to recognizing the unique characteristics and issues faced by today's college students and applying theory to practice.
Prerequisites:
none
CSP 664
Organizational and Program Assessment in Student Affairs
3 credits
This course is designed to facilitate an understanding of current models and practices of assessment and program evaluation in higher education and student affairs, particularly regarding the process of assessing student learning and development. Models of organizational development and change, as well as the impact of campus environments on diverse student populations, will also be central to this course.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
