Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/archives/comm-studies-degree-programs/undergraduate-programs/communication-studies-minor/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Archives
Communication and Media Degree Programs
Undergraduate Programs
Communication and Media, Minor
Communication and Media Section
Communication and Media
Why Commmunication and Media
Student Resources
Communication and Media Faculty and Staff
Apply to the University
Communication and Media Minor
The Communication and Media minor prepares engaged, knowledgeable citizens. The study of communication and media fosters the public good by encouraging socially responsible practices.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
20
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
COMM 105W
Interpersonal Communication
4 credits
A course blending theory and practice to help individuals build effective relationships through improved communication.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-02
COMM 110
Media and Society
4 credits
Nature, functions, responsibilities and effects of the media in contemporary society.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-09
Diverse Cultures: Purple
COMM 203
Intercultural Communication
4 credits
The course explores communication with people from other cultures, why misunderstandings occur and how to build clearer and more productive cross-cultural relationships.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-07, GE-08
Diverse Cultures: Purple
* Note: COMM 105W, COMM 110, and COMM 203 count for general education. Consult with your advisor.
Electives
Choose 8 Credit(s). Choose upper-division courses in consultation with your advisor.
COMM 300 - 499
credits
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
