Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/archives/comm-studies-degree-programs/graduate-programs/communication-education-gc/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Archives
Communication and Media Degree Programs
Graduate Programs
Communication Education, Graduate Certificate
Communication and Media Section
Communication and Media
Why Commmunication and Media
Student Resources
Communication and Media Faculty and Staff
Communication Education (GC)
Courses in the graduate certificate may double-count toward the Communication & Composition (C&C) master's degree. Completion of the master's qualifies the student to also earn a graduate certificate in the Teaching of Writing (English). Students in C&C are highly encouraged to apply for graduation in all three credentials.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
18 / 18
Locations
Online
Apply
Program Requirements
Degree Plan
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
Choose 3 credits
COMM 611
Qualitative Research Methods
3 credits
This course is designed to provide graduate students in Communication Studies with knowledge and skills necessary to evaluate qualitative research as it appears in scholarly writing and to perform qualitative research in the academic or organizational context with the rigor appropriate to that context.
Prerequisites:
none
COMM 612
Quantitative Research Methods
3 credits
his course is designed to provide graduate students in Communication Studies with knowledge and skills necessary to evaluate quantitative research as it appears in scholarly writing and to perform quantitative research in the academic or organizational context with the rigor appropriate to that context.
Prerequisites:
none
COMM 620
Modern Rhetorical Criticism
3 credits
This course includes the skills in the analysis, application, and evaluation of argumentative communication.
Prerequisites:
none
Restricted Electives
Teaching
- Choose 3 - 6 Credit(s). If a student takes both COMM 600 and COMM 602, only 9 credits are required in the Theory & Practice Category.
COMM 600
Seminar in Communication Theory
3 credits
An introduction to the communication field focusing on theory construction and the function of communication theory/models in the human experience. Contemporary theories of communication will be reviewed.
Prerequisites:
none
COMM 602
Communication Pedagogy
3 credits
Required for all graduate students in the Department of Communication Studies. Surveys traditional pedagogoical theories as well as critical pedagagical theories as they pertain to teaching communication courses.
Prerequisites:
none
Unrestricted Electives
Theory & Practice
- Choose 9 - 12 Credit(s). 12 credits are required unless a student takes both COMM 600 and COMM 602 in the Teaching category.
COMM 500 - 697
credits
Prerequisites:
none
Degree Plan
First Year
Fall
- 6 Credits
Spring
- 6 Credits
Summer
- 6 CreditsInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
