Link: https://ed.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/educational-technology/computer-keyboard-and-related-technology-gc/

College of Education
Academic Programs
Educational Technology
Computer Keyboard and Related Technology GC
Educational Technology Section
Educational Technology
Computer Keyboard and Related Technology GC
Education Technology MS
Technology, Equity, and Accessibility for Learners GC
Educational Technology for Adult and Professional Learners GC
Instructional Technology and Design GC
Online and Blended Learning GC
Computer, Keyboard, and Related Technology (GC)
The Graduate Certificate in Computer, Keyboard, and Related Technology is an Educational Technology Endorsement that responds to the growing needs of P-16 education in providing equitable instruction for diverse students in the technological environment. Program emphasis is on equitable educational technology integration in the classroom. Courses are presented online through the university course management system. Students must complete courses within the licensure program, plus an 80+ hour practicum experience. Students must have a current Minnesota teaching license or they must be enrolled in approved Minnesota Teacher Education Programs to obtain a Minnesota teaching license.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
10 / 10
Locations
Online
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
KSP 619
Using Technology in learning environments
3 credits
Learners will develop expertise using technology tools to address individual student needs. In this course, learners will explore the assumptions, biases and limitations of integrating technology tools, and the implications of those for teaching and student learning. Through the use of technology integration frameworks, learners will evaluate implications of both access and opportunity of using technology teaching, learning, and assessment. This course will also explore ways in which technology can both be an avenue towards social justice in education and how technology can exacerbate inequities.
Prerequisites:
none
KSP 639
Technology Leadership
3 credits
Learners will examine existing systems for equity of access, use, distribution, and infrastructure and the implications this has for learning communities. Learners will research, design, and create technology plans using data, processes, and procedures to address inequities.
Prerequisites:
none
KSP 662
Additional Licensure Practicum for K-12 & Secondary Schools
1-6 credits
This 80+ hour field experience will provide opportunities for practicing teachers with a current MN Teaching license to put theory into practice in a K-12 environment. During field experiences candidates will become familiar with specific school-related issues, technologies, strategies to assist students in learning and apply strategies to help students study and learn within the classroom environment.
Prerequisites:
none
KSP 689
Supporting Learning through technology
3 credits
With a focus on digital literacy and digital equity, learners will critically analyze and evaluate educational technology frameworks, models, and research to support teaching and learning. Learners will learn how to use technology integration frameworks to guide decision-making about and evaluate use of technology. Learners consider teaching contexts to apply effective uses of technology to support students¿ learning needs with alignment to standards, learning goals, teaching strategies, and assessments.
Prerequisites:
none
Note: The credits earned in the graduate certificate may double count toward the master's in Educational Technology. Please consult with your graduate advisor on your options.Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
