Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/computer-information-technology/computer-technology-minor/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Computer Information Technology
Computer Technology, Minor
Computer Information Technology Section
Computer Information Technology
Computer Information Technology, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Computer Information Science, Minor
Computer Technology, Minor
Database Technologies, Minor
International Technology, Minor
Networking and Information Security, Minor
Software Development, Minor
Database Technologies, Certificate
Information Security, Certificate
Networking Technologies, Certificate
Software Development, Certificate
Computer Information Technology Faculty & Staff
Computer Technology Minor
The Computer Technology minor prepares students to apply computer information technology in their future careers, with an emphasis on the societal impact of computing. No prior experience is assumed.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
20
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
CIS 100
Introduction to Computing and Applications
4 credits
Basic foundations in computer concepts. Topics include: hardware, software, uses of technology in industry, and ethical, and social issues. Lab work covers various systems and applications software including word processing, e-mail, the Internet, spreadsheets, databases, and presentation software. Cannot be counted toward any major or minor offered by Computer Information Science.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-09
CIS 121
Introduction to Programming
4 credits
This course provides conceptual and logical tools for students planning to major in a computing-based major. Programming in a high-level language such as C++, Python, or Java, and the development of skills in abstraction, problem-solving, and algorithmic thinking are emphasized.
Prerequisites:
MATH 112 or MATH 113 or MATH 115 or MATH 121
CIS 202W
Computers in Society
4 credits
Students prepare written summaries and oral presentations related to the complex social and ethical issues associated with computers. Through thoughtful questions, informative readings, and the analysis of opposing viewpoints, participants gain insight into the complexity of technology-related issues in a world without clearly defined borders.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-09
Electives
Choose 8 Credit(s).
CIS 122
Data Structures
4 credits
This course is a continuation of CIS 121. Students develop a basic knowledge of programming skills and object-oriented concepts, and use fundamental data structures such as lists, stacks, queues, and trees.
Prerequisites:
CIS 121. Select One Course: MATH 112, MATH 113, MATH 115, MATH 121, or MATH 130
CIS 340
Introduction to Database Systems
4 credits
Introduction to database systems, entity relationship models, relational algebra, database design, data modeling, normalization, and conversion of business rules into relational model. Introduction to basic SQL including subqueries, joins, functions, sequences, triggers, views, and stored procedures.
Prerequisites:
CIS 121 or an approved substitute.
CIS 350
Information Security
4 credits
Security concepts and mechanisms; security technologies; authentication mechanisms; mandatory and discretionary controls; cryptography and applications; threats; intrusion detection and prevention; regulations; vulnerability assessment; information assurance; forensics; anonymity and privacy issues; disaster recovery planning, legal issues and ethics.
Prerequisites:
EE 107 or CIS 121 or an approved substitute.
CIS 360
Introduction to Networking
4 credits
This course covers basic concepts related to computer networking. Topics addressed will include the OSI model, the Internet model, network management, network protocols and data security. Prerequisite: a 3.0 or higher grade in IT 210 or an approved substitute is required.
Prerequisites:
CIS 121. Select 1: MATH 113, MATH 115, MATH 121. Or an approved substitute.
CIS 380
Systems Analysis and Design
4 credits
This course explores both structured as well as object oriented systems analysis and design. Use of upper and lower CASE tools are employed in the analysis, design and implementation of a team oriented term project.
Prerequisites:
CIS 340. Select One Course: CIS 122 or CIS 123Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
