Link: https://ahn.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/family-consumer-science/consumer-studies/

College of Allied Health and Nursing
Academic Programs
Family Consumer Science
Minor in Consumer Studies
Family Consumer Science Section
Family Consumer Science
Nutrition & Dietetics
Child Development and Family Studies, BS
Family Consumer Science Education
Child, Youth & Family Services
Minor in Food and Nutrition
Minor in Child Development and Family Studies
Minor in Consumer Studies
About Family Consumer Science
Consumer Studies Minor
Consumer Studies examines decision making of everything from credit to debt to insurance to saving and investments to estate planning to daily consumer choice and more. This area also helps students understand consumers in the marketplace, with an emphasis on discussing consumer well-being and consumer issues related to families and communities.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
18
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
FCS 101
Introduction to Family Consumer Science
3 credits
An overview of the scope of family consumer sciences and the career potentials of the profession.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-02
FCS 275
Consumers in the Economy
3 credits
Economic decision making related to achieving maximum satisfaction from resources spent in the marketplace on housing, food, clothing, transportation, and other dimensions of the family. Basic information about the functions and responsibilities of the consumer, laws and agencies affecting consumer well-being and sources of help.
Prerequisites:
none
Diverse Cultures: Purple
FCS 473
Consumer Protection
3 credits
Emphasizes the analyses and assessment of the effectiveness of consumer protection efforts. Emphasis will be placed on government laws, regulations, and agencies at the federal, state and local levels.
Prerequisites:
none
FCS 474
Community Resources and Family Support
3 credits
The system approach to analyzing family situations to make decisions and correlate resources in the resolution of family managerial problems. Emphasis on the application of managerial skills to lifestyle situations: young-families, older adults, special needs, singles, and low income.
Prerequisites:
none
FCS 478
Family Finance
3 credits
Introduce students to the how's and why's of family financial management to reduce mistakes made in successfully managing financial aspects of life. For non-business majors.
Prerequisites:
none
Electives
Choose 3 Credit(s).
FCS 496
Selected Topics: CDFS
2-3 credits
Topics announced as offered. May be repeated.
Prerequisites:
none
FCS 497
Internship
1-6 credits
A scheduled work assignment with supervision in private business, industry and government agency appropriate to each area of concentration.
Prerequisites:
Consent
FCS 499
Individual Study
1-6 credits
Arranged with the instructor.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
