Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/corrections/programs/corrections-minor/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Corrections
Programs
Corrections, Minor
Corrections Section
Corrections
Programs
Corrections, BS
Corrections, Minor
Criminal Justice, MS
Criminal Justice Learning Community
Scholarships and Financial Assistance
Faculty and Staff
Contact Corrections
Apply Today
Corrections Minor
The Corrections minor prepares students for careers in criminal justice or social services with a special emphasis on addressing the needs of persons convicted of crimes, crime victims, and at-risk populations. Through both academic work and experiential learning, students acquire the knowledge, skills, and experience to work with correctional clients in a variety of settings. Corrections minors are often used to strengthen degrees in psychology, sociology, alcohol and drug studies, and other fields in the social sciences and humanities.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
24
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
CJ 101
Introduction to Criminal Justice Systems
3 credits
Examines the making of criminal law, the evolution of policing, the adjudication of persons accused of criminal law violations, and the punishment of adult offenders.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-05, GE-09
Diverse Cultures: Purple
CJ 200
Foundations and Orientation to Corrections
3 credits
This course requires students to complete 50 hours of volunteering at a community agency to gain experience and learn how the agency and its staff perform their objectives. The course also requires students to practice their writing skills in assignments designed for reflection on personal strengths and interests, career pursuits, and résumé writing. Class discussions emphasize professional development, ethics, and various issues relevant to criminal justice and corrections. Corrections majors should take this course as early as possible.
Prerequisites:
none
CJ 255
Juvenile Delinquency & Justice
3 credits
A critical consideration of definitions of juvenile delinquency, emphasis on micro and macro level of struggle in which delinquent behavior takes place, critique of current theories on delinquency, and the juvenile justice response to delinquency from a criminal justice lens.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-05, GE-09
Diverse Cultures: Purple
CJ 401
Advanced Crime Theory & Prevention
3 credits
Advanced Crime Theory & Prevention provides an overview of the nature and causes of crime and victimization. Using a multidisciplinary approach, the course surveys theories of criminal behavior at the macro- & micro-level. Students will learn how to evaluate criminological theories. The course also covers the link between theory and crime prevention efforts, focusing primarily on how crime prevention efforts employed by legislatures, police, courts, and corrections agencies in the United States are derived from theory.
Prerequisites:
none
Restricted Electives
Choose 12 Credit(s).
CORR 300 - 499
credits
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
