Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/criminal-justice/criminal-justice-minor/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Criminal Justice
Criminal Justice Minor
Criminal Justice Section
Criminal Justice
Criminal Justice, BS
Criminal Justice Minor
Criminal Justice, MS
Criminal Justice Learning Community
Criminal Justice Faculty and Staff
Contact Criminal Justice
Apply Today
Criminal Justice Minor
The Criminal Justice minor allows students to pursue their interests in a variety of aspects of the criminal justice system.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
19
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
CJ 101
Introduction to Criminal Justice Systems
3 credits
Examines the making of criminal law, the evolution of policing, the adjudication of persons accused of criminal law violations, and the punishment of adult offenders.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-05, GE-09
Diverse Cultures: Purple
CJ 201
Careers in Criminal Justice
3 credits
This course will introduce students to the numerous agencies and organizations that make up the criminal justice system and its components. A primary goal for this course is to help students prepare for, as well as succeed in, a criminal justice system career.
Prerequisites:
none
CJ 231
Criminal Law & Procedures
4 credits
The history, development, and application of criminal laws and criminal procedures in the criminal justice system.
Prerequisites:
none
Restricted Electives
Restricted Electives
- Choose 9 Credit(s). At least (6) six credits must be at the 300-400 level
CJ 100 - 499
credits
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
