Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/archives/comm-studies-degree-programs/graduate-programs/cross-disciplinary-studies-master-of-science-ms/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Archives
Communication and Media Degree Programs
Graduate Programs
Cross-Disciplinary Studies, Master of Science (MS)
Communication and Media Section
Communication and Media
Why Commmunication and Media
Student Resources
Communication and Media Faculty and Staff
Cross-Disciplinary Studies (MS)
The Cross-Disciplinary Studies MS is a unique degree providing students with a flexibility in creating the direction for their program. The degree requires students to complete two 18-credit graduate certificates in different disciplines plus a one-credit capstone in either discipline for a 37-credit master's degree. The composition of a student's capstone committee is determined by the policy and procedures of the discipline in which the capstone is taken.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Master of Science
Major /                                         Total Credits
37 / 37
Locations
Online
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
Select and complete an 18-credit graduate certificate offered by the university.
Select and complete a second 18-credit graduate certificate offered by the university.
* Note: Graduate certificates greater than 18 credits are acceptable with approval of the graduate coordinator.
Capstone Course
Complete at least a 1-credit Capstone Course in either of the two 18-credit graduate certificates selected for the degree and offered by the discipline (e.g., Thesis, Alternate Plan Paper, Internship, Portfolio).Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
