Link: https://ed.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/K12-secondary-programs/culturally-responsive-teaching-gc/

College of Education
Academic Programs
K-12 & Secondary Programs
Culturally Responsive Teaching GC
K-12 & Secondary Programs Section
K-12 & Secondary Programs
Undergraduate Programs
Education, Masters of Arts in Teaching
School Library and Information Studies MS
Teaching and Learning MS
Culturally Responsive Teaching GC
Planning and Students' Learning GC
Teacher as Leader GC
Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Licensure GC
Faculty & Staff, K-12 and Secondary Programs
Capstone Projects
Culturally Responsive Teaching (GC)
The graduate certificate provides educators with the opportunity to explore foundational theory and integrate students' cultural backgrounds to inform pedagogical practices while exploring personal, educational, and societal assumptions and biases.
The program is available to all teachers who wish to broaden their knowledge base, enhance their classroom performance and better serve the needs of all learners.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
9 / 9
Locations
Online
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
KSP 601
Culturally Responsive Teaching
3 credits
This course introduces learners to foundational theory, research, and pedagogy for culturally responsive, relevant, and sustaining practices. Learners will examine strategies to develop equity-minded approaches that cultivate an inclusive and safe learning environment. Learners will integrate students¿ cultural and educational experiences to inform teaching and learning practices.
Prerequisites:
none
KSP 612
Student Centered Learning
3 credits
Learners will develop effective and equitable instruction to improve student achievement through differentiated, critical thinking, cooperative, and problem-based curriculum and instruction. Learners will learn about and apply best practices to meet the needs of diverse student populations through increased student-teacher, student-student and student-community relationships. Learners will explore, recognize, and mitigate personal and cultural biases in instruction practices in order to apply effective and equitable student-centered learning.
Prerequisites:
none
KSP 644
Accessing Diverse Partnerships to support students
3 credits
This course explores family, community, societal, and cultural influences in educating diverse student populations. Learners will examine theory and a range of strategies to develop equitable school, family, and community partnerships. Learners will identify strategies to collaborate with diverse stakeholders and develop asset-based frameworks to engage collaborative partnerships. Learners will explore and recognize organizational and cultural barriers to collaborative family and community partnerships.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
