Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/information-technology/database-technology-graduate-certificate/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Master of Science in Information Technology
Database Technology, Graduate Certificate
Master of Science in Information Technology Section
Master of Science in Information Technology
Information Security and Risk Management, Professional Science Master's (PSM)
Information Technology, Master of Science (MS)
Data Science, Master of Science (MS)
Cyber Risk Analysis, Graduate Certificate
Database Technology, Graduate Certificate
Information Technology Faculty & Staff
Database Technology (GC)
10 credits
This program provides the basic concepts, skills, and values for pursuing a career in computer and information science, emphasizing design and implementation of sophisticated database systems and related software.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
10 / 10
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
CIS 540
Database Management Systems
4 credits
Extensive coverage of SQL, database programming, large scale data modeling, and database enhancement through reverse engineering. This course also covers theoretical concepts of query processing, and optimization, basic understanding of concurrency control and recovery, and database security and integrity in centralized/distributed environments. Team-oriented projects in a heterogeneous client server environment.
Prerequisites:
none
CIS 640
Advanced Database Systems
3 credits
In-depth study of advanced topics such as object-oriented databases, intelligent database systems, parallel databases, database mining and warehousing, distributed database design and query processing, multi-database integration and interoperability, and multilevel secure systems.
Prerequisites:
none
CIS 641
Big Data Systems
3 credits
In this course, students will design and implement distributed big data architecture. The architecture consists integration of homogenous and heterogeneous databases and other structured and unstructured data sources. Students will apply concepts of distributed recovery and optimization, and other related topics.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
