Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/computer-information-technology/database-technologies-certificate/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Computer Information Technology
Database Technologies, Certificate
Computer Information Technology Section
Computer Information Technology
Computer Information Technology, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Computer Information Science, Minor
Computer Technology, Minor
Database Technologies, Minor
International Technology, Minor
Networking and Information Security, Minor
Software Development, Minor
Database Technologies, Certificate
Information Security, Certificate
Networking Technologies, Certificate
Software Development, Certificate
Computer Information Technology Faculty & Staff
Database Technologies (CERT)
The Database Technologies undergraduate certificate provides students with the necessary knowledge to apply information technology principles and theory so they are able to address real world business and organizational challenges and opportunities. This certificate focuses on planning, designing, programming and developing secure databases, and the challenges and specific issues in maintaining, managing and securing databases. Students are introduced to the security challenges and threats in database systems and are provided an understanding of the state-of-the art security technologies, and data recovery strategies.
The certificate may not be eligible for federal financial aid. Speak with the
Campus Hub
for details.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
12 / 12
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Prerequisites to the Major
Students must have fundamental knowledge or experience of database (equivalent of CIS 340). Students planning to take CIS 442 must also have knowledge or experience of information security (equivalent of CIS 350). Students planning to take CIS 483 must have basic knowledge or experience of database (equivalent of CIS 340).
Major Restricted Electives
Choose 12 Credit(s).
CIS 440
Database Management Systems
4 credits
Extensive coverage of SQL, database programming, large scale data modeling, and database enhancement through reverse engineering. This course also covers theoretical concepts of query processing, and optimization, basic understanding of concurrency control and recovery, and database security and integrity in centralized/distributed environments. Team-oriented projects in a heterogeneous client server environment.
Prerequisites:
CIS 340, CIS 380
CIS 442
Database Security, Auditing and Disaster Recovery
4 credits
This course covers science and study of methods of protecting data and designing disaster recovery strategy. Secure database design, data integrity, secure architectures, secure transaction processing, information flow controls, inference controls, and auditing. Security models for relational and object-oriented databases.Variable
Prerequisites:
CIS 350, CIS 440
CIS 444
Data Analytics
4 credits
The course explores big data in structured and unstructured data sources. Emphasis is placed on big data strategies, techniques and evaluation methods. Various data analytics are covered. Students experiment with big data through big data analytics, data mining, and data warehousing tools.Does the proposal require a modify Program proposal?No
Prerequisites:
CIS 440
CIS 483
Web Application Design and Development
4 credits
HTTP Protocol; Web-markup languages; Client-side, Server-side programming; Web services; Web servers; Emerging technologies; Security; Standards & Bodies; Web interface design techniques; User-centered design; Visual development environments and development tools; Interface design effectiveness. Fall, Spring
Prerequisites:
CIS 380Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
