Link: https://ahn.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/nutrition-dietetics/dietetics-ms-program-requirements/

College of Allied Health and Nursing
Academic Programs
Nutrition & Dietetics
Dietetics (MS) Program Requirements
Academic Programs Section
Academic Programs
Advanced Dental Therapy, MS
Alcohol and Drug Studies
Applied Health Science
Athletic Training
Communication Sciences and Disorders
Dental Education
Job Opportunities
Exercise Science
Nursing
Family Consumer Science
Family Consumer Science Education
Health and Physical Education
Nutrition & Dietetics
About Nutrition & Dietetics
Nutrition and Dietetics (BS) Program Requirements
Dietetics (MS) Program Requirements
Social Work
Physical Education & Developmental Adapted Physical Education (DAPE)
Pre-Professional Programs
Recreation and Parks Leadership Studies
Sport, Exercise, and Performance Psychology
Sport Management
Dietetics (MS)
The Master of Science in Dietetics is designed to fulfill the requirements for a student to be eligible to take the registration examination for dietitians and become a Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN). The Master’s program is a part of the overall “transitional masters” (also known as an “accelerated masters”) program for Dietetics at Minnesota State University. Before beginning the graduate phase of the professional Dietetics program, students must complete the requirements for admission to the Master of Science in Dietetics program which can be found in the
Student Handbook
. Students complete 12 credits of graduate work while enrolled as undergraduate students; these courses count toward both the undergraduate and graduate degree. Students then go on to complete an additional 28 credits in one year (Summer, Fall and Spring) to complete the Master of Science (MS) in Dietetics degree.
View information about the undergraduate phase of the Professional Program in Dietetics
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Master of Science
Major /                                         Total Credits
40 / 40
Apply
Program Requirements
Degree Plan
Program
                                    Requirements
Major Common Core:
CSP571: Interpersonal Helping Skills – 3cr
FCS560:Foundations of Medical Nutrition Therapy – 3cr
FCS562: Advanced Medical Nutrition Therapy – 3cr
FCS593: Supervised Experiential Learning – 6cr total
FCS601: Community & Behavioral Health – 3cr
FCS610: Research & Evidence in Nutrition – 3cr
FCS631: Nutrition Education & Counseling – 2cr
FCS630: Dietetics Graduate Seminar – 1cr
FCS632: RDN Exam Prep – 1cr
FCS640: Nutritional Supplements & Pharm. – 2cr
FCS693: Supervised Experiential Learning –10cr total
Hlth675: Applied Biostatistics – 3cr
Degree Plan
2-Year Plan
First Year Fall (can overlap with Bachelor’s)
FCS560:Foundations of Medical Nutrition Therapy-3cr
FCS593: Supervised Experiential Learning – 3cr
First Year Spring (can overlap with Bachelor’s)
FCS562: Advanced Medical Nutrition Therapy – 3cr
FCS593: Supervised Experiential Learning – 3cr
First Graduate Year Summer
FCS601: Community & Behavioral Health – 3cr
FCS610: Research & Evidence in Nutrition – 3cr
FCS693: Supervised Experiential Learning – 2cr
First Graduate Year Fall
FCS631: Nutrition Education & Counseling – 2cr
FCS630: Dietetics Graduate Seminar – 1cr
FCS693: Supervised Experiential Learning – 3cr
CSP571: Interpersonal Helping Skills – 3cr
First Graduate Year Spring
FCS640: Nutritional Supplements & Pharm. – 2cr
FCS632: RDN Exam Prep – 1cr
FCS693: Supervised Experiential Learning – 5cr
Hlth675: Applied Biostatistics – 3crInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
