Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/economics/academic-programs/economics-minor/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Economics
Academic Programs
Economics, Minor
Economics Section
Economics
Academic Programs
Economics, BS
Economics, BA
Economics, Minor
Faculty and Staff
Contact Economics
Apply Today
Economics Minor
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
18
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
ECON 201
Principles of Macroeconomics
3 credits
Emphasis on forces influencing employment and inflation. Current problems of the economy are stressed along with tools government has to cope with them.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-05
ECON 202
Principles of Microeconomics
3 credits
Examines decision making by the individual firm, the determination of prices and wages, and current problems facing business firms.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-05
Unrestricted Electives
Choose 12 Credit(s). Select 12 credits in consultation with an advisor.
ECON 101 - 499
credits
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
