Link: https://ed.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/educational-technology/Educational-Technology-for-Adult-and-Professional-Learners-GC/

College of Education
Academic Programs
Educational Technology
Educational Technology for Adult and Professional Learners GC
Educational Technology Section
Educational Technology
Computer Keyboard and Related Technology GC
Education Technology MS
Technology, Equity, and Accessibility for Learners GC
Educational Technology for Adult and Professional Learners GC
Instructional Technology and Design GC
Online and Blended Learning GC
Edu Tech for Adult and Prof Learners (GC)
The graduate certification in Professional Learning and Educational Technology is focused on leveraging technology to create positive change in education through adult and professional learning, partnerships, leadership, and design. Learners pursuing this graduate certificate will analyze and evaluate system-level inequities and apply technology-related models and strategies within their own context (i.e., classroom, department, school, organization). This certificate is for learners interested in building skills and experience in technology-supported leadership, adult learning theories, professional development, and community partnerships for teaching and learning.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
12 / 12
Locations
Online
Apply
The graduate certification in Professional Learning and Educational Technology is focused on leveraging technology to create positive change in education through adult and professional learning, partnerships, leadership, and design.
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
KSP 624
Accessibility, Technology, and Learning
3 credits
This course will provide the learners with reflective and practical experiences for the integration of accessibility, technology and learning. Students will explore student characteristics and needs, learning goals and experiences, accessibility tools, differentiated instruction, and technology to design and evaluate integrated lesson plans.
Prerequisites:
none
KSP 639
Technology Leadership
3 credits
Learners will examine existing systems for equity of access, use, distribution, and infrastructure and the implications this has for learning communities. Learners will research, design, and create technology plans using data, processes, and procedures to address inequities.
Prerequisites:
none
KSP 643
Introduction to Design in Education
3 credits
This course will include analysis, synthesis, application, and evaluation of approaches to design in education. Learners will critically review design models and technology use as applied in education and the research that supports them to analyze how design can reduce barriers to learning and can increase equitable access to learning. Learners will analyze and apply design models and technology use to evaluate, adapt, and create student-centered learning experiences and instructional materials. Learners will analyze and apply strategies for teaching a design-based approach to problem solving and inquiry.
Prerequisites:
none
KSP 693
Leveraging Technology for Professional Learning
3 credits
Learners will design professional learning that leverages technology to create equity-centered, authentic, and engaging experiences to work towards eliminating education disparities. Learners will examine theories and practice for adult learning, engagement, and ongoing support through coaching and mentoring to best serve diverse education communities.
Prerequisites:
none
Note: The credits earned in the graduate certificate may double count toward the master's in Educational Technology. Please consult with your graduate advisor on your options.Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
