Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/english/english-degree-programs/english-literature-english-studies/undergraduate/english-minor/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
English
English Degree Programs
Literature Program
Undergraduate Programs
English Literature, Minor
English Section
English
Student Resources
English Faculty & Staff
Apply to the University
English Literature Minor
The English Literature minor provides students with a foundation in British, American, and global literatures and aims to teach critical thinking, cultural competency, and advanced written communication.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
20
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
ENG 275W
Introduction to Literary Studies
4 credits
An introduction to literary genres and to the techniques of writing about literature.
Prerequisites:
ENG 101
Restricted Electives
Choose 8 credits. Must include courses from 2 of the following 3 areas: British literature, American literature, World literature.
ENG 322
Topics in British Literature
4 credits
Topics in British literature covering various periods, literary movements, and themes. The course will study works of fiction, poetry, and drama, and their historical and cultural contexts. Potential topics include Victorian Literature & Art, Gothic Literature, British Colonial & Post-Colonial Literature, Performing Identity in Early Drama, Monsters and Magic, and others. This course may be repeated with change of topic.
Prerequisites:
none
ENG 323
Topics in US Literature
4 credits
This topics course examines some of the major developments in US literature. In reading a variety of canonical and noncanonical works, students will develop a greater understanding of US literature within specific sociocultural transformations and attendant literary movements. The course may be taught thematically, with possible topics including postcolonialism, environmental studies, immigration, and popular culture. May be repeated with change of topic.
Prerequisites:
none
ENG 433W
Selected Studies in World Literature
4 credits
Topics on themes, issues, and developments in genres of the literatures of the world. Content changes. May be repeated.
Prerequisites:
none
Diverse Cultures: Purple
ENG 435
The World Novel
2-4 credits
A study of selected novels from a variety of time periods and cultures, including Eastern and Western Europe, Asia, Africa, and Latin America.
Prerequisites:
none
Unrestricted Electives
Choose 8 credits of literature coursework at the 300- and 400-level. Courses may not double count from other English department majors or minors.Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
