Link: https://cob.mnsu.edu/academics/entrepreneurship--innovation/Minor-Entrepreneurship-Innovation/

College of Business
Academic Programs
Entrepreneurship & Innovation
Minor in Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Academic Programs Section
Academic Programs
Accounting
AgriBusiness and Food Innovation Program
Business Administration
Business Law
Entrepreneurship & Innovation
Minor in Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Entrepreneurship and Innovation Certificate
Finance
International Business
Management and Entrepreneurship
Marketing
Advising
College of Business registration, forms, policies, advising sessions and more.
more info
Entrepreneurship and Innovation Minor
The minor is designed to expose, engage and support students in thinking and experiencing the processes, challenges, and opportunities associated with the interdisciplinary and team-based nature of beginning a new venture.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
21
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Thinking like an entrepreneur doesn’t necessarily mean starting a new business. This minor is for any student, from any discipline who wants to explore and implement ideas that create social, environmental or economic value. From an engineering major developing the next energy efficient vehicle, to the sports management student learning to coordinate events, to the artist wanting to open their own gallery, the Entrepreneurship & Innovation minor is developed to help prepare you for what lies ahead in the working world. By completing the minor you will have the opportunity to:
Practice real world application of business concepts
Acquire new resources to help you reach your goals
Increase your self -awareness and social skills to help determine your skills and strengths
Understand the value in creating effective management teams
Think like an entrepreneur
OBJECTIVE
Challenge students to think like an entrepreneur by providing foundational and creative coursework combined with co-curricular entrepreneurial opportunities.
ABOUT
A minor in Entrepreneurship & Innovation consists of the following 21 credits and requires completion of the United Prairie Bank IBE program.
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
ACCT 200
Financial Accounting
3 credits
The accounting process, financial statement preparation, and analysis. Includes the accounting cycle, asset, liability, and equity accounting. Emphasis on the use of accounting data.
Prerequisites:
MATH 112 or MATH 115or MATH 121 or MATH 130 or MATH 181
BUS 397
IBE Practicum
3 credits
BUS 397 provides students an entrepreneurial real-world learning opportunity. Students gain additional insight into business concepts by applying the material in a real-world environment and gaining insight into the integrated nature of business. The class focuses on learning to develop and operate a business entity. Student teams will operate their own company, obtain an actual bank loan, and sell their chosen products throughout the semester. The class provides an opportunity to practice business skills such as communication, problem-solving, and leadership. Students learn what it takes for entrepreneurs to succeed while giving back through community service.
Prerequisites:
Must be admitted to a major.
FINA 362
Business Finance
3 credits
An introduction to finance relating to problems, methods, and policies in financing business enterprise.
Prerequisites:
ACCT 200
MGMT 230
Principles of Management
3 credits
This course examines basic management concepts and principles, their historical development, and their application to modern organizations. Topics covered include planning, organizing, decision making, leadership, control, and organizational change. In addition, the course includes an introduction to business ethics and social responsibility, human resource management, organizational design and organizational behavior.
Prerequisites:
none
MGMT 332
Creativity and Innovation
3 credits
This course is designed to develop a students personal creativity and help a student identify the process of organizational innovation. The course is comprised of a combination of short lecture, in-class discussion of readings and videos, writing assignments, an elevator pitch and group activities.
Prerequisites:
none
MGMT 443
Entrepreneurship: New Venture Growth
3 credits
This course focuses on startup and post-startup venture activities. Students who have achieved proof of concept with a venture idea will find this course helpful. Students will learn to evolve a business model concept into a sustainable, scalable venture in a variety of business sectors. Topics discussed include business operations, analysis, entrepreneurial finance, growth, and exit strategies. Students will also learn to present their venture ideas to interested stakeholders. The course will allow students to have the opportunity to engage with business professionals and entrepreneurs.
Prerequisites:
none
MRKT 210
Principles of Marketing
3 credits
This course provides a basic understanding of marketing concepts with emphasis on the pricing, promotion, and distribution of need satisfying products and services in domestic and international markets. The format of the course consists of lectures, case discussions, application exercises, projects, exams, and in-class group assignments.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
