Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/ethnic-studies/undergraduate/ethnic-studies-bs/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Ethnic Studies
Undergraduate Programs
Ethnic Studies, BS
Ethnic Studies Section
Ethnic Studies
Real World Experiences
Ethnic Studies Faculty and Staff
Contact Ethnic Studies
Ethnic Studies (BS)
Ethnic Studies is an interdisciplinary program, academically committed to promoting multicultural and ethnic knowledge, skills and values both within and outside the United States and to preparing our students for effective participation in culturally diverse global communities. Choose an emphasis from the list below to learn about the program.
Ethnic Studies, BS, Business Corporate
Ethnic Studies, BS, International Community and Human Services
Ethnic Studies, BS, Local Community and Human Services
Ethnic Studies, BS, Optional or Other Extended Program Courses
Ethnic Studies, BS, Public Government
Admissions to Major/Minor
Ethnic Studies, B.S
Students enrolling in 300-400 level courses must be admitted to the program. Admission to Major is granted by the department. Minimum University admission requirements are:
Minimum of 32 earned semester credit hours
Minimum cumulative GPA of 2.00 ("C")
Required Minor - any
Contact
the department for application procedures
P/N Grading Policy:
No more than 1/4 of total undergraduate credits may be taken as P/N.
Minimum Credits:
Graduation with an associate degree is based upon successful completion of a minimum of 64 hours of credit. Graduation with a baccalaureate degree requires a minimum of 120-128 semester hours of credit.
Online Ethnic Studies Minor (18 Credits required)
Students must be admitted to a major at Minnesota State University or other universities and must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.00 or higher.Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
