Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/psychology/undergraduate/experimental-psychology-certificate/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Psychology
Psychology Undergraduate Programs
Experimental Psychology, Certificate
Psychology Section
Psychology
Peer Advising & Tutoring Center
Psychology Scholarships and Financial Assistance
Faculty and Staff
Contact Psychology
Apply Today
Experimental Psychology (CERT)
The purpose of this certificate is to provide undergraduate students with hands-on research experience in psychology. Psychology majors who are considering graduate school are highly recommended to complete this certificate.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
21 / 21
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Gainful Employment Program Information
The Minnesota State System makes available data for some of Minnesota State Mankato's undergraduate and graduate certificate programs. Information includes: program length, program costs, students borrowing money, licensure requirements, college scorecard and additional information.
Program Report
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Major Common Core
PSYC 101
Introduction to Psychological Science
4 credits
This course is designed to provide a thorough introduction to the broad spectrum of theories and applications that make up the field of psychology
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-05
PSYC 201
Statistics for Psychology
4 credits
This course emphasizes understanding the conceptual basis of common statistical procedures and applying those procedures to the problems of organizing information and making inferences from data. Topics include: summarizing data, the logic of inference, estimation, analysis of variance, and correlation.
Prerequisites:
Complete one course: MATH 112, MATH 113, MATH 115, MATH 121, MATH 130, or STAT 154
PSYC 211W
Research Methods and Design
4 credits
An introduction to the major components of research methodology in psychology. This is a writing intensive course and involves the processing, interpretation, and exposition of behavioral data.
Prerequisites:
Must have a minimum total cumulative GPA of 2.70 or instructor permission to enroll; PSYC 201
PSYC 496
Laboratory Research in Psychology
2 credits
Individualized research experience with a faculty mentor in the psychology department. You will gain specific research experience as designed by a faculty mentor. To register for this course, you must first apply and be accepted to join a psychology faculty members' research team.
Prerequisites:
PYSC 211W
Major Restricted Electives
Choose 7 - 8 Credit(s).
PSYC 419
Psychometric Theory
4 credits
An overview of development, use, and validation of psychological tests. Topics include reliability and validity, test construction, item analysis, ethics, test administration and scoring, and computerized testing.
Prerequisites:
PSYC 211W
PSYC 423
Cognitive Neuroscience
4 credits
The goal of neuroscience is to understand the human mind. This goal is approached by revealing the brain processes involved in how we perceive, think, remember, and move. Brain development, communication, and plasticity at the neural level are all described.
Prerequisites:
PSYC 211W, PSYC321
PSYC 430
Advanced Topics in Biological Psychology
4 credits
This course provides students with an overview of the fundamental principles and current research on selected topics in biological psychology through critical evaluation and discussion.
Prerequisites:
PSYC 211W, PSYC 321
PSYC 443
Advanced Social Psychology
4 credits
An in-depth examination of social psychological research in laboratory and field settings.
Prerequisites:
PSYC 211W, PSYC 340 or PSYC 358
PSYC 450
Advanced Cognitive Psychology
4 credits
Advanced Cognitive Psychology introduces students to key research papers in the field of human cognition. Through reading, writing, and the study of experimental design, students will advance their understanding of cognitive psychology and develop their ability to critically review and evaluate research.
Prerequisites:
PSYC 211W, PSYC 325Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
