Link: https://ahn.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/family-consumer-science/child-development-and-family-studies-bs2/

College of Allied Health and Nursing
Academic Programs
Family Consumer Science
Minor in Food and Nutrition
Family Consumer Science Section
Family Consumer Science
Nutrition & Dietetics
Child Development and Family Studies, BS
Family Consumer Science Education
Child, Youth & Family Services
Minor in Food and Nutrition
Minor in Child Development and Family Studies
Minor in Consumer Studies
About Family Consumer Science
Food and Nutrition Minor
Food and Nutrition introduces students to major concepts in food, nutrition, food systems and policies. The minor is helpful minor for students in health, fitness, food or agriculture-related majors.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
18
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
FCS 150
Cooking and Culture
3 credits
Introduces students to basic food science, food preparation and culinary techniques. The course is taught from the lens of different global cultures and the roles of individuals and nations in a global context using food habits as a model. Foods from around the world are prepared by students to develop culinary skills.
Prerequisites:
none
FCS 242
Nutrition for Healthcare Professionals
3 credits
The science of six nutrient classes, including digestion through metabolism and excretion, sources, functions, deficiencies and excess symptoms. The course covers the foundational knowledge and application of nutrition knowledge to clinical care, including weight control and common chronic conditions requiring nutrition therapy.
Prerequisites:
Select One Course: CHEM 106 or CHEM 111
FCS 280
Food Systems and Policy
3 credits
This class will explore the complex modern food system from a systems lens, including the development, establishment, and execution of policies regarding the production and availability of food and food/nutrition practices as well as the environmental impact of those practices. Policies that are explicit (set by law) and implicit (not the result of legislation) and the programs that derive from them will be explored. Agricultural systems and policies at the personal, local, national and global level will be considered.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-10
FCS 440
Advanced Human Nutrition
3 credits
This class is an advanced course in human metabolism, emphasizing the function and interaction of nutrients in metabolic and physiological processes.
Prerequisites:
CHEM 111, FCS 242
FCS 476
Nutrition Across the Lifecycle
3 credits
This class explores nutrition needs across the lifecycle from preconception through pregnancy and lactation and from infancy to end of life. Utilizing a case-study and experiential learning approach, the course will cover nutrient requirements, nutritional risk and health over the lifespan.
Prerequisites:
FCS 242
Restricted Electives
Choose 3 Credit(s).
FCS 300 - 499
credits
Prerequisites:
none
HP 439
Nutrition for Physical Activity and Sport
3 credits
Provides in-depth exploration of the dietary needs of physically active individuals across the lifespan. Its laboratory component will focus on performance and interpretation of assessments commonly used to determine dietary and physiological status.
Prerequisites:
HP 314
Cannot use one of the Core courses for the minor to fulfill this requirement.Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
