Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/world-languages-and-cultures/french-program/graduate/french-ms/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
World Languages & Cultures
French
Graduate Programs
French, Master of Science (MS)
World Languages & Cultures Section
World Languages & Cultures
French
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
French, Master of Science (MS)
Faculty and Staff
German
Scandinavian Studies
Spanish
Student Resources
World Languages & Cultures Faculty & Staff
French (MS)
Students interested in teaching at the Community College level should see their advisor about identifying methods courses to strengthen their teaching ability. Licensure is not required to teach at the Community College level, but courses in teaching skills are recommended. This program prepares students of French for teaching in higher education. Fifty percent of the credits must be taken at the 600 level, excluding thesis or APP credits.
Thesis Plan - 30 credits
Alternate Plan Paper -34 credits
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Master of Science
Major /                                         Total Credits
34 / 34
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Restricted Electives
Major Teaching Field
- Choose 16 - 22 Credit(s). Choose any 500/600 level French courses selected in consultation with an advisor.
FREN 500 - 699
credits
Prerequisites:
none
Modern Language Methods
- Choose 3 Credit(s). Unless an equivalent course was taken at the undergraduate level.
Professional Education
- Choose 6 Credit(s). Choose any 500/600 level Professional Education courses selected in consultation with an advisor.
Unrestricted Electives
Choose 2 - 6 Credit(s). Choose any 500/600 level elective courses selected in consultation with an advisor.
Capstone Course
Select either Thesis or Alternate Plan Paper (APP)
FREN 694
Alternate Plan Paper
1 credits
Prerequisites:
none
FREN 699
Thesis
3-6 credits
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
