Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/geography/graduate/geography-ms/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Geography
Graduate Programs
Geography, M.S.
Geography Section
Geography
Geography Colloquia
Geography Faculty and Staff
Contact Geography
Geography (MS)
The Geography MS provides students an applied learning environment with emphasis on high-impact research and learning experiences. Geography students gain expertise in natural and/or human systems that can be applied to solving real-world problems; quantitative and qualitative field and laboratory methods; geospatial technologies (GIS, GPS, GNSS, Remote Sensing); conducting scientific inquiry; and communicating scientific results/data to the public. Students are trained to be successful in public and private sectors, or continue to a Ph.D. program.
Two options are available: 1) a 30-credit coursework and research thesis option; or 2) a 34-credit coursework and Alternate Plan Paper (APP) option. Students who complete the Geography MS are competitive for an applied professional career or admission to nationally recognized doctoral degree programs.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Master of Science
Major /                                         Total Credits
34 / 34
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Graduate Program Handbook
Program Cheat Sheet
Application for Graduate Programs
Applicants for admission to graduate programs in Geography should have maintained a grade point average of 3.3 on a 4.0 scale for a four-year degree. Applicants having grade point averages below the minimum who present convincing evidence of potential for success may be considered for provisional admission.
Applicants should submit a letter of intent, official transcripts from all universities previously attended, and letters of recommendation from three individuals familiar with the applicant's undergraduate academic performance in order to be considered for the program. These materials should be submitted to both the
Admissions Office
(or emailed to gradapp@mnsu.edu) and to the Geography Department's administrative assistant.
It is HIGHLY recommended that applicants to the program inquire with potential advisors in our Department, if interested in enrolling in this program. It is also HIGHLY recommended that potential applicants detail in their letter of intent who their potential advisor(s) might be and describe their research interests and how that aligns with the potential advisor(s).
This will help the Department of Geography align prospective students with the appropriate faculty members if they are accepted and help us assess if the applicant and our program is an appropriate fit. Again, we highly encourage and recommend that you to reach out to faculty members in the department and discuss your ideas with them before applying!
International applicants must submit a TOEFL score of at least 75, within a minimum score of 15 in each section of the TOEFL or an IELTS score of at least 6.0 (total score), with a minimum of 5.0 in each category.
It is strongly encouraged that all application materials be submitted to the Geography Department by
March 1
of the academic year prior to the fall in which a prospective student wishes to enroll. Applications submitted after this deadline have a decreased chance of being granted financial assistance and/or being accepted to the program.
To apply online, go to
Graduate Studies Applications
page.
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
GEOG 680
Philosophy of Geography
3 credits
The history and development of geographic thought from ancient times to the late 20th century.
Prerequisites:
none
Research/Methods Course(s)
GEOG 678
Geographic Research & Writing
3 credits
Required of MS professional degree candidates. To acquaint students with the geographer's perspective and methods of inquiry; to examine types of geographic research; to develop student's ability in producing research papers; to give students experience in writing research papers and to provide students experience in professional oral presentation.
Prerequisites:
none
Restricted Electives
Choose any 500/600 level elective courses in consultation with an advisor. 15 credits must by taken in Geography.
Capstone Course
Select either Thesis or Alternate Plan Paper (APP)
GEOG 694
Alternate Plan Paper
1-2 credits
Student culminating experience in lieu of a thesis.
Prerequisites:
none
GEOG 699
Thesis
1-6 credits
A culminating project related to basic or applied research
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
