Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/geography/undergraduate/geography-minor/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Geography
Undergraduate Programs
Geography, Minor
Geography Section
Geography
Geography Colloquia
Geography Faculty and Staff
Contact Geography
Apply Today
Geography Minor
A versatile minor allowing students to develop a basic understanding of the relationships between people and the environment. Students can concentrate on topics such as world regions, environmental processes, cultural systems, or geospatial techniques depending on career goals. A popular option is to complete both the Geography minor and the GIS Certificate so upper-division geospatial electives can double count for both programs.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
19
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
GEOG 101
Introductory Physical Geography
4 credits
An introduction to the science of understanding earth's physical environment, with focus on the processes that drive fundamental earth systems. Includes investigation of natural hazards, earth-sun relationships, climate and climate change, weather, flora and fauna, soil, landforms, and surfaces processes driven by rivers, glaciers, wind, rock decay, gravity. North American and world-wide examples are used to demonstrate spatial distribution and interrelationships. Some coverage of human-environmental relations.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-03, GE-10
GEOG 103
Introductory Cultural Geography
3 credits
Cultural aspects of interactions between people and their environment focusing on spatial patterns of population, agriculture, politics, language, religion, industrialization, and urbanization. Emphasis is placed on the processes that create the cultural landscape and on management of land and natural resources.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-05, GE-08
Diverse Cultures: Purple
GEOG 340
United States
3 credits
Students will develop a knowledge of the similarities and contrasts in regional landscapes and cultures of the United States.
Prerequisites:
none
Electives
Choose 9 Credit(s).
GEOG 200 - 499
credits
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
