Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/geology/geology-minor/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Geology
Geology, Minor
Geology Section
Geology
Geology, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Geology, Minor
Environmental Geology, Certificate
Geology Faculty and Staff
Geology Minor
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
18
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
GEOL 121
Physical Geology
4 credits
Physical geology is the study of how the earth works. From mountain building to soil erosion, this course provides an introduction to all the main areas of geologic study. Lecture discussions and laboratory exercises are designed for students seeking a major or minor in one of the natural sciences.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-03, GE-10
GEOL 122
Earth History
4 credits
An examination of the development and evolution of life on earth. In addition to reviewing the range of life forms and global climates existing on earth during various times in its geologic past, we will also look at how global industrialization could lead to the earth's next period of mass extinction. Weekly laboratory assignments help illustrate principles discussed in lectures.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-03
GEOL 201
Elements of Mineralogy
4 credits
Examination of the elemental composition and crystal structure of various common minerals. Laboratory time is spent practicing techniques of identifying crystals and minerals. The importance and occurrence of many economic minerals is also covered thoroughly in this course.
Prerequisites:
GEOL 100 or GEOL 107 or GEOL 121
Restricted Electives
Choose 6 Credit(s).
GEOL 320W
Sedimentology and Stratigraphy
4 credits
Focused studies of the origins and processes of transportation, deposition, burial, and diagenesis of sedimentary materials. Lab assignments focus on sedimentary material identification and analysis. Field trips required.
Prerequisites:
Select one course: GEOL 100, GEOL 107, GEOL 121
GEOL 330
Structural Geology
4 credits
Study of the processes and results of rock deformation at scales ranging from microscopic to plate tectonic, and at conditions ranging from the Earth's surface to the deep interior.
Prerequisites:
GEOL 100 or GEOL 107or GEOL 121
GEOL 401
Field Studies
1-3 credits
This course is devoted to the study and practice of geological field investigations. Students will first learn basic field investigative methods. Students will then be appropriately versed in the geological history and importance of a region selected for in-depth study. Finally, students will participate in a field trip to a regional site of geologic importance over an extended weekend (4-6 days). Potential study sites may include Minnesota's North Shore and Iron Range, the Badlands and Black Hills of South Dakota, the Ozarks, or the Rocky Mountains.
Prerequisites:
GEOL 100 or GEOL 121 and GEOL 122
GEOL 410
Glacial Geology
3 credits
Study of the origin, composition, texture, morphology, and stratigraphy of glacial deposits. Topics include the geologic record of glaciation, techniques used to reconstruct histories of glaciation, glacial depositional systems, provenance of glacial sediments, influence of glaciation on soil texture, and interpretation of glacial geologic maps. Emphasis will be placed on description and interpretation of glacial features in southern Minnesota. Field trips required.
Prerequisites:
GEOL 100 or GEOL 107or GEOL 121
GEOL 430
Intro to Geophysics and Seismology
3 credits
Comprehensive survey of geophysical methods utilized in geologic resource exploration, and basic principles of applied seismology in industry.
Prerequisites:
GEOL 121, GEOL 201, GEOL 122
GEOL 449
Applied Soil Science and Surface Hydrology
4 credits
The application of geologic data and principles to problems created by human occupancy and use of the physical environment. Lecture and laboratory topics include soil classification and conservation, hazardous waste site evaluation and remediation, and living with geologic hazards.
Prerequisites:
GEOL 100 GEOL 104 or GEOL 107 or GEOL 121
GEOL 450
Hydrogeology
3 credits
This course introduces physical and chemical studies of hydrogeology. The main areas of discussion will include the physical and chemical attributes of aquifers, movement of ground-water and solute through soils and rocks, and reactions between earth materials and pollutants in ground-water systems. The class includes extensive use of MODFLOW and MT3D, the two most commonly usedgroundwater modeling programs currently available.
Prerequisites:
GEOL 100 or GEOL 107or GEOL 121
GEOL 499
Individual Study
1-5 credits
.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
