Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/mechanical-engineering/global-solutions-in-engineering-and-technology-graduate-certificate/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Mechanical Engineering
Global Solutions in Engineering and Technology, Graduate Certificate
Mechanical Engineering Section
Mechanical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering Bachelor of Science Mechanical Engineering (BSME)
HVACR Engineering Design CERT
Mechanical Engineering, Master of Science (MSME)
Engineering, Master of Science (MS)
Engineering, Master of Science (MS) Mechanical Engineering Emphasis
Global Solutions in Engineering and Technology, Graduate Certificate
Mechanical Engineering Faculty & Staff
Global Solutions in Engineering and Technology (GC)
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
9 / 9
Locations
Mankato
Edina
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
ME 594
Global Experience in Engineering and Technology
1 credits
This class will provide students pursuing a certificate in Global Solutions in Engineering and Technology with an opportunity to explore a set of topics related to achieving success either in advance of or following an international experience (internship, study abroad, etc.). Speakers will include faculty, graduate students, visiting researchers and industry members as well as student participants. Returning students will be required to participate in mentoring of students preparing for their international experience and provide written and/or oral presentations of various topics during the semester. This course is to be required either before or after participation in the international experience.
Prerequisites:
none
Restricted Electives
GEOG 620
Issues in Cultural Geography
1-4 credits
Discussion and analysis of contemporary issues in the field of cultural geography. Designed to allow in-depth focus on current problems/issues that geographers will encounter in their professional practice. Topics vary according to instructor.
Prerequisites:
none
SOC 530
Sociology of Globalization
3 credits
Overview of the role of the United States in an increasingly globalized society with a focus on economic and political inequality, the class structure, the labor process, race and gender relations, the global dimensions of capitalism, and modern crisis tendencies.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
