Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/archives/comm-studies-degree-programs/undergraduate-programs/health-communication-minor/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Archives
Communication and Media Degree Programs
Undergraduate Programs
Health Communication, Minor
Communication and Media Section
Communication and Media
Why Commmunication and Media
Student Resources
Communication and Media Faculty and Staff
Apply to the University
Health Communication Minor
The Health Communication minor is an interdisciplinary program designed to provide undergraduate students with writing and speaking skills for use in health and medical settings. The minor prepares students to create clear, ethical, and culturally competent messages in a variety of written, visual, and oral communication formats.
The minor is beneficial for students majoring in health or biomedical sciences who wish to communicate in patient-centered ways. The minor is also useful to communication-related majors who wish to further specialize their training.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
16
Locations
Mankato
Apply
View upcoming courses in Health Communication
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
COMM 370
Foundations of Health Communication
4 credits
Communication impacts every facet of our experience of health and well-being. This course introduces students to the subdiscipline of health communication, its key concepts, and important theories and research in the field.
Prerequisites:
none
COMM 470
Topics in Health Communication
4 credits
Special interest courses devoted to specific topics within health communication. Topics vary, and course may be retaken for credit under different topic headings.
Prerequisites:
none
ENG 271W
Technical Communication
4 credits
Introduction to learning the written and oral communication of technical information. Assignments include writing and presenting proposals, reports, and documentation. Emphasis on use of rhetorical analysis, computer applications, collaborative writing, and usability testing to complete technical communication tasks in the workplace.
Prerequisites:
ENG 101
Goal Areas: GE-02, GE-13
ENG 483
Writing About Health and Medicine
4 credits
This course addresses the skills required for technical communication within the context of health and medicine. Students will discuss typical audiences, purposes, and genres of health and medical communication. Students will adapt complex health and medical information for audiences with varying levels of knowledge, demonstrating awareness of audience analysis, visual design, plain language, and ethics.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
