Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/world-languages-and-cultures/spanish-program/undergraduate-program/hispanic-studies-language-and-culture-minor/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
World Languages & Cultures
Spanish
Undergraduate Programs
Hispanic Studies Language and Culture, Minor
Spanish Section
Spanish
Undergraduate Programs
Spanish, Bachelor of Arts (BA)
Spanish, Minor
Spanish Teaching, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Hispanic Studies Language and Culture, Minor
Graduate Programs
Faculty and Staff
Hispanic Studies: Languages and Cultures Minor
Students will learn about the multicultural perspectives that are part of the Hispanic/Latinoxa communities around the world. The courses discusses identity politics, cultural and literary productions, and how colonial/postcolonial discourses have shaped the way Hispanic/Latinoxa communities engage with issues of race, gender, class, etc.
An excellent option for students ready to take SPAN 210W and who are completing majors in Communication, Education, Engineering, Social Work, Nursing, Law Enforcement, Sociology, Political Science, Psychology, and Business, as they are likely to interact with Hispanic communities in the U.S. and abroad. The program is in Spanish.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Total Credits
16
Locations
Mankato
Online
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
Choose 4 Credit(s). Consult with an advisor on the best course option.
SPAN 210W
Composition and Conversation Workshop
4 credits
Includes basic communication exchanges, common vocabulary and experiences. Emphasis is on improving written expression through compositions related to socio-cultural topics of the countries in which Spanish is the primary language.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-06, GE-08
SPAN 311W
Composition Workshop for Heritage/Bilingual Speakers
4 credits
Develop writing and reading skills for academic and professional settings for students with intermediate high oral language proficiency who would like to develop their critical reading skills and improve their writing for academic and professional purposes. Practice of orthography, stylistics, compositional elements characteristic of writing in Spanish for a variety of cultural settings, etc. and development of communicative competence for a Spanish-speaking audience based on multicultural readings.
Prerequisites:
none
Restricted Electives
Choose 12 Credit(s). Select course in consultation with an advisor.
SPAN 350
Topics in Hispanic Cultures
4 credits
A critical analysis of cultural and historical events that have shaped the Hispanic world from a transatlantic perspective. We explore the multiple cultures that are part of the Spanish, Latin American, and US regions and examine concepts such as Hispanic identity, colonial/postcolonial discourses, immigration, race, etc. This course is in Spanish.
Prerequisites:
Two years of university-level Spanish or proof of equivalent proficiency.
SPAN 355
Spanish Cultures
1-4 credits
Major cultural and historical aspects of Spain from ancient times to the present. Prereq: Two years university level Spanish or equivalent
Prerequisites:
Two years university level Spanish or equivalent
SPAN 356
Latin American Cultures
1-4 credits
Major cultural and historical aspects of Latin America from pre-colonial times to the present. Prereq: Two years university level Spanish or equivalent
Prerequisites:
Two years university level Spanish or equivalent
SPAN 405
Topics in Hispanic Literatures
4 credits
A critical analysis of Hispanic literature from the different regions of the Hispanic world (Spain, Latin America, US). We explore the multiple literary trends that are part of the Spanish-speaking regions and examine concepts such as Hispanic identity, colonial/postcolonial discourses, immigration, etc. through literary discourses. This course is in Spanish.
Prerequisites:
Completion of 4 credits of 300 -level or equivalent proficiency level.
SPAN 450
Spanish for the Professions
4 credits
This course is targeted at language professionals including teachers, business professionals, health professionals, law enforcement professionals. The purpose is to improve overall oral proficiency and address communication issues and vocabulary associated with the students' field of expertise.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
