Link: https://www.mnsu.edu/academics/academic-catalog/all-active-catalogs/2019-2020-academic-catalog/undergraduate/honors-program/

Home
Academics
Academic Catalog
All Active Catalogs
2019-2020 Academic Catalog
Undergraduate
Honors Program
Honors Program
You are viewing the
2019-2020
catalog.
VIEW CURRENT CATALOG
Degrees
Policies & Faculty
Course List
Undergraduate Programs
Description
Mission Statement
: The mission of the Honors Program at Minnesota State Mankato is to encourage future leaders, researchers, and global citizens by providing high ability and motivated students with exceptional learning opportunities, mentoring relationships, and a community of scholars that foster their development as future leaders in a global society.
Program Overview
: The Honors Program is dedicated to the development of three main competencies: leadership, research, and global citizenship. Students can choose between two honors designations. Students who enroll in a 14-credit Honors Program that includes 6 credits of Honors General Education courses and 8 honors credits will graduate with the designation: Honors Program Graduate with Distinction. Students who participate in an abbreviated 8-credit honors curriculum will graduate with the designation: Honors Program Graduate. As students move into courses within their major, they further develop their honors competencies through advanced honors seminars and individualized plans of study. Throughout their time at the University, students will participate in co-curricular activities which complement their plan of study. At the culmination of all coursework, seniors are required to demonstrate acquisitions of the leadership, research, and global citizenship competencies through a successful presentation and defense of an honors portfolio in HONR 475: Honors Portfolio.
Policies & Faculty
Policies
Admission to the Honors Program
: The Honors Director, in consultation with the Honors Council, grants admission to the Honors Program. No predetermined test score or class rank guarantees or precludes admission. The selection committee considers the applicant’s demonstrated academic excellence and inquisitiveness. Contact the Honors Program Director for application forms and procedures.
GPA Policy
. Students must maintain a minimum overall 3.3 GPA to remain in good standing in the program.
Pass/No Credit Policy
. All of the Honors courses (including honors sections of general education courses and honors seminars) must be taken for a letter grade, except for HONR 475, which is only taken as pass/no credit.
Transfer Policy
. Transfer students should contact the Honors Program Director to have their transfer credits reviewed when they submit the application for admission.
The Honors Program Graduate with Distinction
track requires a core program of 14 credit hours. The Honors Program Graduate track requires 8 credit hours.
Contact Information
265 Morris Hall
Honors Office (507) 389-5191
http://www.mnsu.edu/honors/
Faculty
Director
Leah White, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Giovanna Walters
Jump To:
000
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
200 Level
HONR 201: Introduction to Honors
Credits: 1
This course provides an orientation to the mission and core competencies of the Honors Program. Students will analyze and categorize leadership, research, and global citizenship themes, identify appropriate learning goals, and develop an e-portfolio for their use in the Honors Program.
Prerequisites: none
HONR 250: Honors Service Learning
Credits: 1-6
One way to meet Honors Program requirements is through Service-Learning.  Students will develop meaningful Service-Learning activities which will involve an action and reflection dynamic.  May be taken as traditional course or individually in consultation with the Honors Program Director.
Prerequisites: none
HONR 255: Honors Practicum
Credits: 1-6
Honors students may engage in significant learning experiences outside of the traditional classroom setting.  A practicum typically begins with student interest that turns into an educational activity.  Practicums will be individually determined in consultation with the Honors Program Director.
Prerequisites: none
400 Level
HONR 401: Honors Seminar
Credits: 1-4
Seminars are offered by University faculty from a wide variety of disciplines.  In addition, interdisciplinary seminars can be offered.
Prerequisites: none
HONR 450: Honors Service Learning
Credits: 1-6
One way to meet Honors Program requirements is through Service-Learning.  Students will develop meaningful Service-Learning activities which will involve an action and reflection dynamic.  May be taken as traditional course or individually in consultation with the Honors Program Director.
Prerequisites: none
HONR 455: Honors Practicum
Credits: 1-6
Honors students may engage in significant learning experiences outside of the traditional classroom setting.  A practicum typically begins with student interest that turns into an educational activity.  Practicums will be individually determined in consultation with the Honors Program Director.
Prerequisites: none
HONR 475: Honors Portfolio
Credits: 1
This required course allows the student to articulate where and how he or she has met the Honors Program Learning Outcomes.
Prerequisites: none
HONR 499: Individual Study
Credits: 1-6
To be arranged with Honors Program Director.
Prerequisites: noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
