Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/mechanical-engineering/hvacr-engineering-design-cert/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Mechanical Engineering
HVACR Engineering Design CERT
HVACR Engineering Design CERT Section
HVACR Engineering Design CERT
HVAC&R Engineering Design (CERT)
This certificate provides a focused study of the latest technology and procedures for the design of heating, ventilating, air conditioning, and refrigeration (HVAC&R) systems and equipment. The required coursework emphasizes theoretical design as well as industry relevant skills and procedures. Prepares students to be highly competitive in the job market and to eventually take the Principles and Practice of Engineering (PE) Examination in Mechanical – HVAC and Refrigeration.
The certificate may not be eligible for federal financial aid. Speak with the
Campus Hub
for details.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
12 / 12
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Major Common Core
ME 240
Building Systems Documentation
1 credits
Communicating technical information about building systems including mechanical, electrical, and plumbing (MEP) systems. Students will learn to read and interpret mechanical plans as well as piping and instrumentation diagrams (P&ID).
Prerequisites:
ME 103 or instructor permission or instructor permission.
ME 329
Applied Thermodynamics
3 credits
Energy analysis and design of thermodynamic systems including power and refrigeration cycles. Thermodynamic relations. Application of thermodynamics to mixtures and solutions. Psychometrics. Introduction to chemical thermodynamics. Third law of thermodynamics. Includes significant design component.
Prerequisites:
CHEM 191, ME 241
ME 431
Building Information Modeling (BIM) for HVAC&R Engineers
1 credits
Exploration of the principles and application of Building Information Modeling (BIM) in the HVAC&R industry. Course will include a practice project in the HVAC field using Autodesk Revit.
Prerequisites:
Instructor Permission
ME 432
HVAC&R Systems and Applications
1 credits
This course will focus on the typical HVAC&R systems and components in use today. Basic operation, advantages and disadvantages, as well as system integration will be discussed.
Prerequisites:
ME 321, ME 324, ME 329 or instructor permission.
ME 439
Heating Ventilating and Air Conditioning Design
3 credits
Refrigeration cycles and equipment, refrigerant properties, heating and cooling loads, psychometric analysis of air conditioning. Distribution of air conditioning medium and air quality as applied to design. Includes significant design component.
Prerequisites:
ME 324, ME 329
Major Restricted Electives
Choose 3 Credit(s).
CIVE 340
Structural Analysis
3 credits
Minimum design loads for buildings using ASCE 7 guidelines and load distribution. Analysis of determinate structural systems including the case of moving loads. Analysis of indeterminate structures using the flexibility and moment distribution methods. Use of software to enhance the analysis.
Prerequisites:
CIVE 223 or ME 223
ME 416
Thermal/Fluid Systems Design
3 credits
The application of the principles of thermodynamics, fluid mechanics, and heat transfer to the design and analysis of selected energy systems of current interest, such as nuclear, solar, geothermal, and also conventional systems. Lecture and design projects.
Prerequisites:
ME 324, ME 329
MET 425
Project and Value Management
3 credits
Planning, management, and economic justification of projects are supported by computer tools for scheduling, staffing, and economic analysis.
Prerequisites:
STAT 154Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
