Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/computer-information-technology/information-security-certificate/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Computer Information Technology
Information Security, Certificate
Computer Information Technology Section
Computer Information Technology
Computer Information Technology, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Computer Information Science, Minor
Computer Technology, Minor
Database Technologies, Minor
International Technology, Minor
Networking and Information Security, Minor
Software Development, Minor
Database Technologies, Certificate
Information Security, Certificate
Networking Technologies, Certificate
Software Development, Certificate
Computer Information Technology Faculty & Staff
Information Security (CERT)
The Information Security certificate provides students with the necessary knowledge in information security principles and practices and an understanding of how information security functions in an organization from both business and technology aspects. The program will engage students with a thorough review of viruses, worms, backdoors, Trojan horses, Rootkits, and other threats. Students will analyze malware in order to understand the infection, propagation, and deception mechanisms of these attack vectors. It will also focus on risk assessment to identify reasonably foreseeable internal and external risks to the security, confidentiality and integrity of user information and assess the sufficiency of any safeguards in place to control these risks.
The certificate may not be eligible for federal financial aid. Speak with the
Campus Hub
for details.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
12 / 12
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Prerequisites to the Major
Students planning to take CIS 460 must have basic knowledge of or experience in data communications and networking (equivalent of CIS 360). Students planning to take CIS 442 must have basic knowledge of or experience in databases (equivalent of CIS 340).
Major Restricted Electives
Choose 12 Credit(s).
CIS 350
Information Security
4 credits
Security concepts and mechanisms; security technologies; authentication mechanisms; mandatory and discretionary controls; cryptography and applications; threats; intrusion detection and prevention; regulations; vulnerability assessment; information assurance; forensics; anonymity and privacy issues; disaster recovery planning, legal issues and ethics.
Prerequisites:
EE 107 or CIS 121 or an approved substitute.
CIS 442
Database Security, Auditing and Disaster Recovery
4 credits
This course covers science and study of methods of protecting data and designing disaster recovery strategy. Secure database design, data integrity, secure architectures, secure transaction processing, information flow controls, inference controls, and auditing. Security models for relational and object-oriented databases.Variable
Prerequisites:
CIS 350, CIS 440
CIS 450
Information Warfare
4 credits
Covers information warfare principles and technologies. Information warfare concepts; protocols, authentication, and encryption; network attack techniques, methodologies, and tools; network defense; malware; Trojan worms, viruses, and malicious code; electronic crimes and digital evidence.
Prerequisites:
CIS 350
CIS 460
Network and Security Protocols
4 credits
Advanced coverage of data communication, networking and security protocols. Topics: data transmission methods, error detection and recovery, flow control, routing, security issues and performance analysis of existing and emerging protocols for secure communication. Fall, Spring
Prerequisites:
CIS 360Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
