Link: https://ed.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/educational-technology/instructional-technology-grad-certificate/

College of Education
Academic Programs
Educational Technology
Instructional Technology and Design GC
Educational Technology Section
Educational Technology
Computer Keyboard and Related Technology GC
Education Technology MS
Technology, Equity, and Accessibility for Learners GC
Educational Technology for Adult and Professional Learners GC
Instructional Technology and Design GC
Online and Blended Learning GC
Instructional Design and Educational Technology (GC)
The Graduate Certificate in Instructional Technology and Design responds to the growing needs of P-16 education, public and non-profit organizations, and business industry in providing instruction and training development.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
9 / 9
Locations
Online
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
KSP 643
Introduction to Design in Education
3 credits
This course will include analysis, synthesis, application, and evaluation of approaches to design in education. Learners will critically review design models and technology use as applied in education and the research that supports them to analyze how design can reduce barriers to learning and can increase equitable access to learning. Learners will analyze and apply design models and technology use to evaluate, adapt, and create student-centered learning experiences and instructional materials. Learners will analyze and apply strategies for teaching a design-based approach to problem solving and inquiry.
Prerequisites:
none
KSP 680
Pedagogy in Online Learning Environments
3 credits
This course will require learners to evaluate, analyze, and use pedagogical frameworks and practices to design online learning environments with a lens of equity and diversity. Learners will establish online environments and create course materials using research-based pedagogy in educational technology.
Prerequisites:
none
KSP 687
Design in Education II
3 credits
Learners will apply theoretical models and processes for the design and development of learning experiences to address an instructional-based problem of practice in a local education setting. Starting by conducting a needs analysis, learners will use a design process to create an innovative solution to address the problem. Learners will analyze and evaluate the application of technology tools to support their solutions. The design process will focus on identifying and addressing issues around diversity, equity, and inclusion to better support student learning.
Prerequisites:
none
Note: The credits earned in the graduate certificate may double count toward the master's in Educational Technology. Please consult with your graduate advisor on your options.Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
