Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/computer-information-technology/international-technology-minor/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Computer Information Technology
International Technology, Minor
Computer Information Technology Section
Computer Information Technology
Computer Information Technology, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Computer Information Science, Minor
Computer Technology, Minor
Database Technologies, Minor
International Technology, Minor
Networking and Information Security, Minor
Software Development, Minor
Database Technologies, Certificate
Information Security, Certificate
Networking Technologies, Certificate
Software Development, Certificate
Computer Information Technology Faculty & Staff
International Technology Minor
This minor is designed to allow the student to gain technology project experience in a cross-cultural and cross-disciplinary environment. The student will participate in the process of conceiving, designing and implementing technological solutions/ products in this environment.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
20
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
Study abroad to earn at least 12 credits. For international students, this must be in a country whose culture differs significantly from the student's home country. The international program of study must be approved by both the student's advisor and by the chair of the Computer Information Science Department. The 12 credits can be taken as CIS 390 or as other courses as determined and approved by the student, advisor, and CIS chair.
Restricted Electives
Major Options
For Majors in CIS Department
- Choose 8 Credit(s). When this minor accompanies a major from the Computer Information Science Department, choose 8 credits of 300- and 400-level CIS courses. These courses must not be included among those used to complete the requirements for the major.
CIS 300 - 499
credits
Prerequisites:
none
For Majors from another department
- Choose 8 Credit(s). When this minor accompanies a major from another department, choose 8 credits of CIS courses numbered 200 and above.
CIS 200 - 499
credits
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
