Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/interdisciplinary-studies/interdisciplinary-studies-bachelor-of-science-bs/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Interdisciplinary Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Interdisciplinary Studies Section
Interdisciplinary Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Open Studies, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Contact Interdisciplinary Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies (BS)
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Bachelor of Science
Major /                                         Total Credits
49 / 120
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Create your own degree through Interdisciplinary Studies!
The Interdisciplinary Studies degree is designed to give students an opportunity to create their own programs and earn an undergraduate degree.
Students seeking the Interdisciplinary Studies degree will select three academic areas in which to concentrate their work with the help of the Interdisciplinary Studies coordinator. The coordinator and student will create a plan of study that will guide the student’s academic progress.
Requirements when pursuing a degree in Interdisciplinary Studies:
Earn a “C” or better in their major classes. No pass/no credit (P/NC) credits will apply to courses in the major unless specific courses are offered only on a P/NC basis.
Complete the University's general-education program.
Complete at least 40 upper-division semester credits.
Complete a minimum of 15 semester credits of study in each of the three selected academic areas of concentration.
Complete IDST496 Interdisciplinary Studies Capstone Course. The student will work with the Interdisciplinary Studies Coordinator to select either coursework or an internship.
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Major Common Core
IDST 496
Capstone Experience
1-4 credits
The BS in Open Studies and BS in Interdisciplinary Studies culminate in a capstone experience course which students take during their final semester of studies. Students reflect upon their learning to understand how their coursework has prepared them to transition from the academic world into the professional world. This is a variable-credit course that can be taken for 1-4 credits depending on each student's needs and under consultation with their advisor. The workload increases with each credit. The requirements for this course are dependent on academic focus and goals for the future.
Prerequisites:
none
Major Restricted Electives
Discipline One
- Choose 15 Credit(s).
Any Discipline 300 - 499
credits
Prerequisites:
none
Discipline Two
- Choose 15 Credit(s).
Any Discipline 300 - 499
credits
Prerequisites:
none
Discipline Three
- Choose 15 Credit(s).
Any Discipline 300 - 499
credits
Prerequisites:
none
Lower-division courses (100-200 level) may be included with approval of the program director.
Minor
NoneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
