Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/computer-engineering-technology/internet-of-things-certificate2/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Computer Engineering Technology
Internet of Things, Certificate
Computer Engineering Technology Section
Computer Engineering Technology
Computer Engineering Technology, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Internet of Things, Certificate
Computer Engineering Technology Faculty & Staff
Internet of Things (CERT)
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
19 / 19
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Major Common Core
EE 470
Wireless Networking
3 credits
The features, data rate, frequency range, and operation of several wireless networking protocols such as Wi-Fi, Low Energy Bluetooth, Near Field Communication, Radio frequency Identifier (RFID), Threads, and ZigBee that can be used to implement Internet of Things (IoT) are introduced. The electrical, functional, and procedural specifications of Wi-Fi are then examined in detail. The programming and data transfer using the hardware Wi-Fi kit are carried out to demonstrate the versatility of this protocol.
Prerequisites:
none
EET 254
Microprocessors I
4 credits
A study of microcomputer hardware and software fundamentals, the instruction set and the addressing modes of a microprocessor/microcontroller, assembly programming, basic I/O concepts, parallel I/O methods, asynchronous serial I/O methods, synchronous serial I/O methods, A/D conversion, timer applications, and introduction to Internet of Things (IoT) and its impact to society. Spring
Prerequisites:
EET 113
EET 384
Microprocessors II
4 credits
A study of a high performance microprocessor architecture. Applications of a microprocessor for monitoring and controlling systems will be studied. Optimal utilization of a microprocessors resources will be stressed. PC programming in assembly and a high level language.
Prerequisites:
none
EET 430
Computer Networking I
4 credits
An introduction to the basic foundations of computer networking. The course will encompass telecommunications, local area networks, wide area networks and wireless communication. Topics covered include OSI model, the TCP/IP MODEL, different network topologies and associated hardware, error detection and correction, protocols, and security.
Prerequisites:
MATH 180, EET 384
EET 441
Embedded Systems
4 credits
Design and prototyping of embedded systems including both hardware and software components. A variety of hardware, software, sensors and displays will be used depending on the embedded system requirements. Issues related to hardware and software specifications will be studied as well as appropriate documentation standards.
Prerequisites:
MATH 180, EET 384Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
