Link: https://cob.mnsu.edu/academics/management-entrepreneurship/integrated-business-experience-certificate/

College of Business
Academic Programs
Management and Entrepreneurship
Integrated Business Experience Certificate
Academic Programs Section
Academic Programs
Accounting
AgriBusiness and Food Innovation Program
Business Administration
Business Law
Entrepreneurship & Innovation
Finance
International Business
Management and Entrepreneurship
Bachelor of Science in Management
Bachelor of Science in Agribusiness and Food Innovation
Minor in Human Resources
Agribusiness and Food Innovation Minor
Entrepreneurship & Innovation Minor
Entrepreneurship and Innovation Certificate
Integrated Business Experience Certificate
Marketing
Integrated Business Experience (CERT)
The certificate provides students an entrepreneurial real-world learning opportunity. Students gain additional insight into business concepts by applying the material in a real-world environment and gaining insight into the integrated nature of business. The certificate focuses on learning to develop and operate a business. Student teams will operate their own company, obtain an actual bank loan, and sell their chosen products throughout the semester. The certificate provides an opportunity to practice business skills including communication, problem-solving, and leadership. Students learn what it takes for entrepreneurs to succeed while giving back through community service.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Major /                                         Total Credits
15 / 15
Accreditation
AACSB
Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business
Apply
The United Prairie Bank Integrated Business Experience (IBE) allows students to combine a suite of required courses into a semester-long real-world entrepreneurial experience that gives them a head-start on their business careers.
The IBE program focuses on the following:
learning to develop and operate a business
obtaining an actual bank loan
selling chosen products throughout the semester
IBE Certificate program policies:
The Certificate is open to all majors.
Students must be admitted to the University and have University and COB upper-division permission.
Students can transfer in ACCT 200. ACCT 200 is a prerequisite for FINA 362 and must be successfully completed before starting the IBE cohort classes.
Learn more about the IBE and view student projects
Questions? Contact Dr. Kristin Scott
Declare the certificate
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Major Common Core
The IBE cohort classes (FINA 362, MGMT 230, MRKT 210, and BUS 397) must all be taken concurrently in the same semester in a designated section for IBE students. Students must apply for the cohort classes. ACCT 200 is a prerequisite for FINA 362.
ACCT 200
Financial Accounting
3 credits
The accounting process, financial statement preparation, and analysis. Includes the accounting cycle, asset, liability, and equity accounting. Emphasis on the use of accounting data.
Prerequisites:
MATH 112 or MATH 115or MATH 121 or MATH 130 or MATH 181
FINA 362
Business Finance
3 credits
An introduction to finance relating to problems, methods, and policies in financing business enterprise.
Prerequisites:
ACCT 200
MGMT 230
Principles of Management
3 credits
This course examines basic management concepts and principles, their historical development, and their application to modern organizations. Topics covered include planning, organizing, decision making, leadership, control, and organizational change. In addition, the course includes an introduction to business ethics and social responsibility, human resource management, organizational design and organizational behavior.
Prerequisites:
none
MRKT 210
Principles of Marketing
3 credits
This course provides a basic understanding of marketing concepts with emphasis on the pricing, promotion, and distribution of need satisfying products and services in domestic and international markets. The format of the course consists of lectures, case discussions, application exercises, projects, exams, and in-class group assignments.
Prerequisites:
none
Major Restricted Electives
Select 3 credits. CIS 499 is for MIS majors only.
BUS 397
IBE Practicum
3 credits
BUS 397 provides students an entrepreneurial real-world learning opportunity. Students gain additional insight into business concepts by applying the material in a real-world environment and gaining insight into the integrated nature of business. The class focuses on learning to develop and operate a business entity. Student teams will operate their own company, obtain an actual bank loan, and sell their chosen products throughout the semester. The class provides an opportunity to practice business skills such as communication, problem-solving, and leadership. Students learn what it takes for entrepreneurs to succeed while giving back through community service.
Prerequisites:
Must be admitted to a major.
CIS 499
Individual Study
1-4 credits
Problems on an individual basis.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
