Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/liberal-studies-aa/liberal-arts-and-sciences-aa/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Liberal Arts & Sciences (AA Degree)
Liberal Arts and Sciences, Associate of Arts (AA)
Liberal Arts & Sciences (AA Degree) Section
Liberal Arts & Sciences (AA Degree)
Liberal Arts and Sciences, Associate of Arts (AA)
Contact Liberal Arts and Sciences
Liberal Arts and Sciences (AA)
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Associate of Arts
Major /                                         Total Credits
60 / 60
Locations
Mankato
Apply
About the Associate of Arts Degree:
The Associate of Arts (AA) degree consists of 60 credits of coursework, 44 of which are made up of general education courses and 16 of which are made up of lower division (100 and 200 level) electives. No more than 16 credits of coursework applied to the AA degree can be taken P/N. In order to graduate with an AA degree, a student must maintain a GPA of 2.0. MSU policy dictates that at least 20 credits of this degree must be taken from MSU. AA degree students must adhere to the university general education program and must meet the cultural diversity requirement that has been determined for the AA degree.
Choosing Courses to Complete an AA Degree:
Students who plan to complete a bachelor’s degree after completing the AA degree should consider pre-requisites or required courses for the major when choosing coursework for completion of the AA degree. Many departments require specific general education courses or electives in order to be admitted to the major. Refer to MSU’s Undergraduate Catalog for information about majors. Students who do not plan to complete a Bachelor’s degree should focus on taking courses that interest them and/or will help them in the job market. No matter how a student plans to use the AA degree, all AA degree students must complete MSU’s general education program.
General Education:
MSU’s general education program integrates a broad foundation of knowledge and skills with the study of contemporary concerns. A total of 44 credits must be completed to satisfy the general education program at MSU. These 44 credits must be taken within categories. Some categories specify that more than one course must be taken in order to satisfy the category. For a complete outline of MSU’s general education program, policies associated with it, and a listing of all general education courses, please see the current undergraduate catalog or the General Education and Cultural Diversity Bulletin.
AA Degree Advising:
The AA degree program provides each student with a multitude of choices when it comes to selecting coursework and because of this it is very important for students to work closely with an advisor. The College of Humanities and Social Sciences Advising Office, is the primary advisor for the AA degree. If the student plans to pursue a bachelor’s degree after completing the AA degree, the student should also keep in contact with an advisor in that department as well.
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Major Common Core
Complete the 44 credits for the university's general education requirements.
General Electives
Choose 16 Credit(s).
Any Discipline 100 - 299
credits
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
