Link: https://cob.mnsu.edu/academics/management-entrepreneurship/minor-in-human-resources/

College of Business
Academic Programs
Management and Entrepreneurship
Minor in Human Resources
Academic Programs Section
Academic Programs
Accounting
AgriBusiness and Food Innovation Program
Business Administration
Business Law
Entrepreneurship & Innovation
Finance
International Business
Management and Entrepreneurship
Bachelor of Science in Management
Bachelor of Science in Agribusiness and Food Innovation
Minor in Human Resources
Agribusiness and Food Innovation Minor
Entrepreneurship & Innovation Minor
Entrepreneurship and Innovation Certificate
Integrated Business Experience Certificate
Marketing
Advising
College of Business registration, forms, policies, advising sessions and more.
more info
Human Resource Mgmt Minor
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
18
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Human Resource Management involves all of the decisions and practices that relate to managing people in organizations. Important HRM activities include recruiting and hiring employees, analyzing jobs and writing job descriptions, motivating and evaluating the job performance of employees, determining pay and benefits, providing training, ensuring safety and health, and complying with employment-related laws and regulations. The effective management of the human resources of an organization is critical to the organization's success.
A minor in Human Resource Management consists of the following 18 credits and requires a total cumulative 2.50 GPA.
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
MGMT 340
Human Resource Management
3 credits
This course examines the effective management of the human resources of organizations. Topics include analyzing jobs and writing job descriptions; recruiting and hiring of applicants; complying with employment law; managing promotions, quits, and layoffs; employee training and development; evaluating job performance; determining compensation; and managing human resources in a unionized environment.
Prerequisites:
none
MGMT 380
Human Behavior in Organizations
3 credits
Concepts, theories, and empirical research on organizational behavior are studied. Models and tools for diagnosing situations, individual behavior, group behavior, intergroup conflicts, supervisory problems and organizational change are analyzed.
Prerequisites:
none
MGMT 441
Staffing
3 credits
Students learn how to hire the best talent available using sound professional methods. Students design and present legally defensible recruiting and screening techniques for jobs they have analyzed.
Prerequisites:
MGMT 340
MGMT 442
Compensation Management
3 credits
The focus of this course is operating an effective, efficient, legal and responsible system for compensating one's employees. Includes the workings of labor markets, analyzing jobs, finding the market value for jobs, designing a pay structure, appraising performance, setting individual pay, determining benefits, occupations requiring special pay programs.
Prerequisites:
MGMT 340
MGMT 445
Training & Development
3 credits
Students design and deliver training by assessing client needs, defining learning outcomes, choosing effective methods, training, and evaluating results.
Prerequisites:
MGMT 340
MGMT 486
Strategic Human Resource Management
3 credits
This capstone course examines how the strategic management of the human resources of an organization can enhance organizational success. The course investigates how to achieve strategic congruence between an organizations strategy and HR management. Topics covered include the interrelationships among the HR disciplines, ethics, sustainability, social responsibility, the role of the HR professional, managing workforce changes, achieving competitive advantage through HR, HR performance metrics, and organizational effectiveness.
Prerequisites:
MGMT 340Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
