Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/manufacturing-engineering-technology/manufacturing-engineering-technology-minor/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Manufacturing Engineering Technology
Manufacturing Engineering Technology, Minor
Manufacturing Engineering Technology Section
Manufacturing Engineering Technology
Manufacturing Engineering Technology, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Manufacturing Engineering Technology, Minor
Manufacturing Engineering Technology, Master of Science (MS)
Engineering Management, Professional Science Master's (PSM)
Project Management, Graduate Certificate
Quality Management Systems, Graduate Certificate
Manufacturing Engineering Technology Faculty & Staff
Manufacturing Engineering Tech Minor
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
16
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
MET 104
Introduction to Manufacturing Engineering Technology
1 credits
An overview of careers, technology and requirements for individuals interested in Manufacturing Engineering Technology. Hands-on experience is gained in a variety of new technologies. Careers in engineering and technology are examined along with professional organizations and ethics. The course is intended as a first step toward a career in manufacturing.
Prerequisites:
none
MET 142
Introduction to Parametric Modeling
3 credits
The course covers a process of developing and analyzing solid parametric models for mechanical applications. Course includes solving technical design problems based on real-world applications as well as creating technical documentation: working and assembly drawings.
Prerequisites:
none
MET 275
Manufacturing Processes I
4 credits
Fundamentals of machine technology and metallurgy. Students learn to perform machining on a lathe, mill, and drill press, and also assemble the products. Basics of heat treatment, welding and machining are discussed. Extra lab time is required.
Prerequisites:
CHEM 104 and MET 142
Electives
Choose 8 additional credits of MET coursesInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
