Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/mathematics/mathematics-minor/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Mathematics
Mathematics, Minor
Mathematics Section
Mathematics
Mathematics, Bachelor of Arts (BA)
Mathematics, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Actuarial Science, Minor
Mathematics, Minor
Mathematics Faculty and Staff
Mathematics Minor
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
19
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
MATH 121
Calculus I
4 credits
Limits, continuity, the derivative and applications, transcendental functions, L'Hopital's Rule, and development of the Riemann integral.
Prerequisites:
Satisfy Placement Table in this section, MATH 115 or both MATH 112 and MATH 113 with "C" (2.0) or better.
Goal Areas: GE-04
MATH 122
Calculus II
4 credits
Techniques of integration, applications of integration, improper integrals, numerical integration, the calculus of parametric curves, and infinite series and sequences.
Prerequisites:
MATH 121 with "C" (2.0) or better or consent
MATH 247
Linear Algebra I
4 credits
Matrices, determinants, systems of linear equations, vector spaces, linear transformations, and characteristic value problems.
Prerequisites:
MATH 122 with "C" (2.0) or better or consent
Restricted Electives
Choose 7 credits from any courses listed for the Mathematics BA or BS majors and/or MATH 380.
See Residency Policy.Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
