Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/mathematics-and-statistics/mathematics-education-master-of-science-ms/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Mathematics and Statistics
Mathematics Education, Master of Science (MS)
Mathematics and Statistics Section
Mathematics and Statistics
Applied Statistics, Master of Science (MS)
Mathematics and Statistics, Master of Science (MS)
Mathematics Education, Master of Science (MS)
Mathematics, Master of Arts (MA)
Mathematics and Statistics Faculty and Staff
Mathematics Education (MS)
Students in this program have the opportunity to study deep, rich mathematics and to connect this to the mathematics they teach. All students in this program take Real Analysis and Abstract Algebra; these courses extend, deepen and abstract the ideas of arithmetic, school algebra and calculus. All students also take Algebraic Structures in School Mathematics and Geometric Structures in School Mathematics, courses which make explicit links between the abstract mathematics in the program and the mathematics taught in K-12 schools.
Our math education faculty includes professors with research and instructional interests in data analysis, geometry, rational number, number sense and algebra in grades K-16, and with teaching experience in middle school, high school and college in this country and in Taiwan. Our faculty are interested in supporting the transition of practicing teachers from teaching K-12 mathematics to being students of advanced mathematics.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Master of Science
Major /                                         Total Credits
34 / 34
Locations
Mankato
Accreditation
CAEP
Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
MATH 517
Real Analysis I
4 credits
The topology of Euclidean spaces, norms, classical inequalities, local and global properties of continuous functions, preservation of compactness and connectedness, sequences in Euclidean space and sequences of functions.
Prerequisites:
MATH 223 and MATH 290 with "C" (2.0) or better or consent.
MATH 641
Abstract Algebra
3 credits
A rigorous excursion through some of the topics of abstract algebra which are essential components of the background of a masters level graduate student. Abstract topics include groups, rings, fields, and modules. Concrete applications include properties of the integers, polynomial rings, and the symmetric group.
Prerequisites:
MATH 345 or consent.
MATH 661
Mathematical Problem Solving & Modeling for Teachers
3 credits
Heuristics in mathematical problem solving and mathematical modeling for teachers.
Prerequisites:
none
MATH 662
Algebraic Structures in School Mathematics
3 credits
Algebraic concepts and procedures interpreted and related from the perspectives of abstract algebra, cognitive research on the learning of algebra, and professional curriculum and instruction programs.
Prerequisites:
MATH 345 or consent.
MATH 663
Geometric Structures in School Mathematics
3 credits
The Van Hiele model of the development of geometric thought and recent developments of geometric theory and applications which are related to the school mathematics curriculum.
Prerequisites:
MATH 332 or consent.
Research/Methods Course(s)
MATH 690
Research in Mathematics Education
3 credits
Examination of cognitive theories guiding research in mathematics education; analysis and interpretation of research procedures applied in experimental, qualitative, program evaluation, survey, meta-analysis, theory-generating, and action research studies in mathematics education.
Prerequisites:
(STAT 450 or STAT 550) or (STAT 451 or STAT 551) or consent.
Restricted Electives
Professional Education
- Choose 6 Credit(s). Any 500/600 level Professional Education courses that must be approved by the student's advisor.
Unrestricted Electives
Choose 7 - 9 Credit(s). Any 500/600 level courses must be approved by student's advisor in order to fulfill the total required hours
Capstone Course
Choose 1 - 3 Credit(s).
MATH 694
Alternate Plan Paper
1 credits
Research under the supervision of the student's advisor leading to an alternate plan paper.
Prerequisites:
none
MATH 699
Thesis
1-4 credits
Research under the supervision of the student's advisor leading to a thesis.
Prerequisites:
ConsentInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
