Link: https://ed.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/educational-technology/Online-and-Blended-Learning-GC/

College of Education
Academic Programs
Educational Technology
Online and Blended Learning GC
Educational Technology Section
Educational Technology
Computer Keyboard and Related Technology GC
Education Technology MS
Technology, Equity, and Accessibility for Learners GC
Educational Technology for Adult and Professional Learners GC
Instructional Technology and Design GC
Online and Blended Learning GC
Online and Blended Learning (GC)
The Online and Blended Learning graduate certificate is focused on educators becoming highly effective in implementing equitable uses of digital technology to address the needs of diverse students across face-to-face, hybrid, and online learning environments in synchronous and asynchronous modalities. This certificate is available to all educators who are interested in broadening their knowledge and skills in using technology across different learning environments to support equity, diversity, and inclusion.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
9 / 9
Locations
Online
Apply
The Graduate Certificate in Technologist responds to the growing needs of technology integrationist in P-16 education. Program emphasis is technology planning and leadership.
Courses are presented online through the university course management system.
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
KSP 619
Using Technology in learning environments
3 credits
Learners will develop expertise using technology tools to address individual student needs. In this course, learners will explore the assumptions, biases and limitations of integrating technology tools, and the implications of those for teaching and student learning. Through the use of technology integration frameworks, learners will evaluate implications of both access and opportunity of using technology teaching, learning, and assessment. This course will also explore ways in which technology can both be an avenue towards social justice in education and how technology can exacerbate inequities.
Prerequisites:
none
KSP 680
Pedagogy in Online Learning Environments
3 credits
This course will require learners to evaluate, analyze, and use pedagogical frameworks and practices to design online learning environments with a lens of equity and diversity. Learners will establish online environments and create course materials using research-based pedagogy in educational technology.
Prerequisites:
none
KSP 684
Pedagogy and Blended Learning
3 credits
Blended learning is a mix of online, f2f, and out of the classroom activities supported by technology that allows students more control over the time, place, pace, and path of their learning. In this course, learners will identify, analyze, evaluate, and apply models for blended learning that use technology tools and platforms in ways that address digital equity and support diverse students. Learners will create blended learning activities, including games and simulations, with a focus on eliminating stereotypes and biases in instruction.
Prerequisites:
none
* Note: The credits earned in the graduate certificate may double count toward the master's in Educational Technology. Please consult with your graduate advisor on your options.Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
