Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/interdisciplinary-studies/open-studies-bachelor-of-science-bs/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Interdisciplinary Studies
Open Studies, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Interdisciplinary Studies Section
Interdisciplinary Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Open Studies, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Contact Interdisciplinary Studies
Open Studies (BS)
Open Studies is a flexible, customizable, and multidisciplinary area of study allowing students to choose classes from across the curriculum that align with their interests, needs, and goals. General Studies is intended for students who have a high volume of credits and uninterested in or unable to complete a traditional major in a reasonable amount of time.
Veterans Education Benefits are not approved for flight training, or any other course or courses where tuition is paid to any entity other than Minnesota State University, Mankato.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Bachelor of Science
Total Credits
120
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Open Studies is a flexible, customizable, and multidisciplinary area of study allowing students to choose classes from across the curriculum that align with their interests, needs, and goals. Open Studies is intended for students who have a high volume of credits and uninterested inor unable to complete a traditional major in a reasonable amount of time.
Veterans Education Benefits are not approved for flight training, or any other course or courses where tuition is paid to any entity other than Minnesota State University, Mankato.
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Required General Education
Complete the university general education requirements or the Minnesota Transfer Curriculum (MTC).
Major Common Core
Complete the university's Diverse Cultures graduation requirement.
Complete the university's Writing Intensive graduation requirement.
Earn 40 semester credit hours in upper-division (300-400) courses.
Earn at least 30 semester credit hours from Minnesota State Mankato.
Complete at least 120 semester credit hours.
IDST 496
Capstone Experience
1-4 credits
The BS in Open Studies and BS in Interdisciplinary Studies culminate in a capstone experience course which students take during their final semester of studies. Students reflect upon their learning to understand how their coursework has prepared them to transition from the academic world into the professional world. This is a variable-credit course that can be taken for 1-4 credits depending on each student's needs and under consultation with their advisor. The workload increases with each credit. The requirements for this course are dependent on academic focus and goals for the future.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
