Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/physics/physics-master-of-science-ms/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Physics
Physics, Master of Science (MS)
Physics Section
Physics
Physics, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Physics Teaching, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Physics, Minor
Physics, Master of Science (MS)
Physics Faculty and Staff
Physics (MS)
Thesis Plan-30 credits
Alternate Plan Paper -34 credits
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Master of Science
Major /                                         Total Credits
34 / 34
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Research/Methods Course(s)
PHYS 607
Intro to Research
2 credits
Use of the library, electronic and machine shop practices, vacuum and cryogenic techniques, research interests of faculty.
Prerequisites:
none
PHYS 692
Seminar
1 credits
Students will attend research seminars presented by faculty in the department, or speakers from other institutions. Students also make and critique presentations made by themselves and other students. May be repeated for credit. Spring
Prerequisites:
none
Restricted Electives
Choose 9 - 12 Credit(s).
PHYS 640
Mathematical Methods for Physicists
3 credits
Mathematical methods necessary for advanced study in physics. Topic include functions of complex variables, calculus or residues, integral transforms and special functions.
Prerequisites:
none
PHYS 650
Classical Mechanics
3 credits
Variational calculus, Lagrangian mechanics, the motions of particles and rigid bodies, the dynamics of oscillating systems and Hamilton-Jacobi theory. Pre: PHYS 441 or equivalent
Prerequisites:
none
PHYS 660
Quantum Mechanics
3 credits
Bound state and scattering problems in one, two, and three dimensions. Approximation methods for stationary states. Time-independent and time-dependent perturbation theory. General formalism of quantum theory. Pre: PHYS 461 or equivalent
Prerequisites:
none
PHYS 670
Electricity and Magnetism
3 credits
Electrostatics, magnetostatics, boundary-value problems, Green functions, time-varying fields, Maxwell equations, conservation laws. Pre: PHYS 448 or equivalent
Prerequisites:
none
Unrestricted Electives
Choose any CSET 500/600 level courses approved by the student's advisor.
Capstone Course
PHYS 694
Alternate Plan Paper
1-2 credits
Prerequisites:
none
PHYS 699
Thesis
1-6 credits
V
Prerequisites:
none
Student must be registered for a minimum of one credit of thesis or APP for every semester that they are working on their paper.Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
