Link: https://ed.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/K12-secondary-programs/planning-and-students-learning-gc/

College of Education
Academic Programs
K-12 & Secondary Programs
Planning and Students' Learning GC
K-12 & Secondary Programs Section
K-12 & Secondary Programs
Undergraduate Programs
Education, Masters of Arts in Teaching
School Library and Information Studies MS
Teaching and Learning MS
Culturally Responsive Teaching GC
Planning and Students' Learning GC
Teacher as Leader GC
Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Licensure GC
Faculty & Staff, K-12 and Secondary Programs
Capstone Projects
Planning and Students' Learning (GC)
The graduate certificate provides educators with research-based skills and frameworks to meet the instructional, assessment, and technology needs of diverse student populations with the goal of creating equitable student-centered learning experiences. The program is available to all teachers who wish to broaden their knowledge base, enhance their classroom performance and better serve the needs of all learners.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
9 / 9
Locations
Online
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
KSP 612
Student Centered Learning
3 credits
Learners will develop effective and equitable instruction to improve student achievement through differentiated, critical thinking, cooperative, and problem-based curriculum and instruction. Learners will learn about and apply best practices to meet the needs of diverse student populations through increased student-teacher, student-student and student-community relationships. Learners will explore, recognize, and mitigate personal and cultural biases in instruction practices in order to apply effective and equitable student-centered learning.
Prerequisites:
none
KSP 640
Supporting Learning through Assessments
3 credits
Learners will explore, recognize, and mitigate personal and cultural biases in their learning environment assessment practices. Learners will use technology to align their assessments with state or national standards to develop clear and compressive learning goals which support equitable learning opportunities. Learners will create and align assessments, communicate results to learners and stakeholders, and use results to support learners¿ continuous growth.
Prerequisites:
none
KSP 663
Designing Curriculum to Support Student Learning
3 credits
Learners will use theories and research-based methods to examine and align curriculum, standards, instruction, and assessment to meet the needs of a diverse student population.Learners will explore, recognize, and mitigate personal and cultural biases in curriculum. Learners will develop cohesive curriculum, instruction, and assessment which aligns to school improvement plans and/or mission and learning principles.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
