Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/political-science/programs/political-science-graduate-certifiate/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Political Science
Programs
Political Science, Graduate Certificate
Political Science Section
Political Science
Kessel Lectures
Political Science Internships
Political Science Faculty and Staff
Contact Political Science
Apply Today
Political Science (GC)
The Political Science graduate dertificate is designed for secondary and post-secondary teachers and post-secondary instructors who would like to further their professional development, meet post-secondary faculty qualifications, or earn their first credits toward an eventual master’s degree. The certificate prepares educators for teaching college-level courses prescribed by the Higher Learning Commission.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
18 / 18
Locations
Online
Apply
Admission Requirements
Admission to Major is granted by the department. Minimum university admission requirements are:
a minimum of 32 earned semester credit hours.
a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.00 (C).
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Restricted Electives
Choose 18 Credit(s).
MPA 600 - 699
credits
Prerequisites:
none
POL 500 - 699
credits
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
