Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/manufacturing-engineering-technology/project-management-graduate-certificate/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Manufacturing Engineering Technology
Project Management, Graduate Certificate
Manufacturing Engineering Technology Section
Manufacturing Engineering Technology
Manufacturing Engineering Technology, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Manufacturing Engineering Technology, Minor
Manufacturing Engineering Technology, Master of Science (MS)
Engineering Management, Professional Science Master's (PSM)
Project Management, Graduate Certificate
Quality Management Systems, Graduate Certificate
Manufacturing Engineering Technology Faculty & Staff
Project Management (GC)
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
12 / 12
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
MET 507
Manufacturing Resource Planning and Control
3 credits
Planning and control of plant resources in globally competitive manufacturing environments. Approaches to manufacturing problems related to design integration, production scheduling, staffing, plant layout, material flow, and inventory issues are examined.
Prerequisites:
none
MET 525
Project & Value Management
3 credits
A study of the optimal relationship between value and function of products and the cost and availability of resources. Topics include valuation, appraisal and capital budgeting, cost minimization, depreciation and economics worth, rates and rate bases, original and reproduction costs, and engineering economics.
Prerequisites:
none
MET 526
Logistics & Transportation
3 credits
Fundamentals of logistics: control of materials, material handling, WIP, finished goods, costs of logistics. Theory and step-by-step procedures are used to analyze logistic systems, packaging and transportation, including global logistics.
Prerequisites:
none
MET 625
Advanced Project Management
3 credits
Advanced Project Management presents in-depth topics in the management process of prioritizing, planning, staffing, managing, and directing projects. Both people skills and advanced management tools will be addressed, along with advanced project evaluation techniques.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
