Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/public-administration/Public-Management-Graduate-Certificate/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Public Administration
Public Management, Graduate Certificate
Public Administration Section
Public Administration
Public Policy, Minor
Public Management, Graduate Certificate
Public Administration and Community Management M.A.
Urban and Regional Studies, M.A.
Public Administration Faculty and Staff
Contact Public Administration
Apply Today
Public Management (GC)
This graduate certificate program provides the basic concepts, skills, and values for pursuing a career in local public management. The program is designed to meet the basic standards of professional competency specified by the International City/County Management Association (IC). The program is appropriate for students who wish to develop a local government management focus within a graduate degree program, or for students who have already earned their degree and wish to prepare for a career shift.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
12 / 12
Locations
Mankato
Career Cluster
Government and Public Administration
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Restricted Electives
Choose 12 credits.
URBS 512
Public Information and Involvement
3 credits
This course is designed for students preparing for a professinal career in local government or public service, focuses on media relations and building citizen involvement through public awareness projects.
Prerequisites:
none
URBS 611
Public Leadership and Management
3 credits
An examination of modern principles and techniques of leadership and management. Emphasis is placed on the interactive style of leadership and behavioral concepts of management.
Prerequisites:
none
URBS 612
Public Policy Analysis
3 credits
This course provides a set of concepts and tools to consider the design and development of public sector policies and decision making.
Prerequisites:
none
URBS 654
Organization Environment
3 credits
Changing nature of management of urban and human behavior in the municipal organization. Emphasis on the development of decision-making and communication skills.
Prerequisites:
none
URBS 655
Administrative Services and Human Resources
3 credits
Provides an overview of urban administrative services with an emphasis on urban finance systems and human resource management. Examines the economic and human resource environment for local government managers' decision-making.
Prerequisites:
none
URBS 656
Urban Finance System and Budgeting
3 credits
Course examines financial management utilizing accurate forecasting, fund accounting and fiscal reporting. Covers budget cycle including legal limitations on local taxation, expenditures, and debt financing.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
