Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/manufacturing-engineering-technology/quality-management-systems-graduate-certificate/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Manufacturing Engineering Technology
Quality Management Systems, Graduate Certificate
Manufacturing Engineering Technology Section
Manufacturing Engineering Technology
Manufacturing Engineering Technology, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Manufacturing Engineering Technology, Minor
Manufacturing Engineering Technology, Master of Science (MS)
Engineering Management, Professional Science Master's (PSM)
Project Management, Graduate Certificate
Quality Management Systems, Graduate Certificate
Manufacturing Engineering Technology Faculty & Staff
Quality Management Systems (GC)
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
15 / 15
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
MET 527
Quality Management Systems
3 credits
This course is focused on quality assurance systems, management philosophies, methodology, function and impact of quality systems in manufacturing operations. Development and application of statistical process control tools.
Prerequisites:
none
MET 528
Lean Manufacturing
3 credits
Basics of Lean Manufacturing in industry, with emphasis on application of concepts. Students will learn the principles of Lean Manufacturing and how they can benefit a business.
Prerequisites:
none
MET 627
Six Sigma from an Industrial Perspective
3 credits
Basics of Six Sigma from an industrial perspective. Emphasis is on practical application of concepts. Upon completion of course, the student will be familiar on a working level with Six Sigma tools leading to Green Belt certification level.
Prerequisites:
none
MET 628
Statistical Quality Control
3 credits
This course covers the statistical properties, acceptance sampling, as well as the design, implementation, and operation, of various statistical quality control schemes including those based on Shewhart, and cumulative sum control charts. Methods appropriate for conducting a capability study will also be covered. The role of quality in process improvement will be examined, as well as statistical models useful in quality control.
Prerequisites:
none
MET 654
Design of Experiments
3 credits
This course emphasizes the following topics: Factorial designs, robust parameter design, Taguchi methods in Technology and product development, and other design and analysis topics.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
