Link: https://ahn.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/recreation-parks-leadership-studies/recreation-minor/

College of Allied Health and Nursing
Academic Programs
Recreation and Parks Leadership Studies
Recreation Minor
Recreation and Parks Leadership Studies Section
Recreation and Parks Leadership Studies
Recreation Leadership and Management
Cultural and Natural Resource Management
Recreation Minor
Contact Recreation and Parks Leadership Studies
Recreation Minor
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
21
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
RPLS 100
Introduction to Recreation and Parks Leadership Studies
3 credits
A foundation course that introduces the student to the profession of leisure services. Emphasis is placed on recreation in the student's life, the development of the profession, the community leisure service system and careers in recreation, parks and leisure services.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-09
RPLS 276
Recreation Leadership
3 credits
Through interactive assignments, students will learn and practice the skills and techniques used by direct leaders in the Recreation and Parks profession. Topics include an introduction to leadership practices, program planning, activity selection, and activity facilitation for diverse groups.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-1B
RPLS 376
Program Planning in RPLS
3 credits
The emphasis of this course is on the program planning process-from creating the idea through evaluation of the program-and how it fits into the agency profile. Various formats such as leisure learning, tournaments, trips and outings, and special events are highlighted for a variety of leisure service agencies.
Prerequisites:
none
RPLS 393W
Advancing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in RPLS
3 credits
Diversity, equity, and inclusion within RPLS has evolved from a focus on control by othering to a strategic-level effort to enhance quality of life and wellbeing in our communities. While we aspire to create a community climate that acknowledges and appreciates diversity, equity, and inclusion, current community practices lag behind this aspiration. We will explore language around diversity, equity, and inclusion to engage in discourse that requires us to acknowledge our history and ways we can learn, heal, and advocate for equitable practices related to recreation programming and access to spaces.
Prerequisites:
none
Unrestricted Electives
Choose 9 Credit(s).
RPLS 300 - 499
credits
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
