Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/electrical-engineering-technology/renewable-energy-certificate/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Electronic Engineering Technology
Renewable Energy, Certificate
Electronic Engineering Technology Section
Electronic Engineering Technology
Electronic Engineering Technology, Bachelor of Science (BS)
Electronic Engineering Technology, Minor
Renewable Energy, Certificate
Electrical Engineering Technology Faculty & Staff
Renewable Energy (CERT)
Renewable Energy certificate includes targeted courses in power systems, instrumentation and fluid power intended to supplement the contents of a technical Associate of Science (AS) degree or Technician program in Wind Turbine Technology or AS/BS degree in Renewable Energy. The certificate includes three courses for a total of nine credits.
The certificate may not be eligible for federal financial aid. Speak with the
Campus Hub
for details.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
10 / 10
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Major Common Core
AET 334
Fluid Power
3 credits
Course provides a fundamental understanding of the physical principles of fluid power, along with a practical working knowledge of the components utilized in designing, installing, operating, and maintaining hydraulic and pneumatic power systems.
Prerequisites:
MATH 121, PHYS 211
EET 315
Programmable Instrumentation
3 credits
Instrumentation system design and integration with sensors, actuators and other electronic indicator components. Programming in a block diagram environment and with embedded C to interface different hardware components.
Prerequisites:
EE 234 and EE 235 OR EET 254
EET 355
Electrical Power Systems
4 credits
Electrical power and magnetic circuit concepts, transformers, generators and motors (DC, synchronous, induction), special purpose motors, power-electronic motor drivers, prime movers/alternatives, generation, transmission/distribution, system stability/protection.
Prerequisites:
EET 114, MATH 127, PHYS 212Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
