Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/sociology/undergraduate/sociology-minor/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Sociology
Undergraduate Programs
Sociology, Minor
Sociology Section
Sociology
About Sociology
Faculty and Staff
Contact Sociology
Accelerated Combined Degree (BA/BS and MS)
Undergraduate students in our Sociology and Corrections programs interested in pursuing a master’s degree in either of these two fields may be granted permission to double count up to 12 credits for both the undergraduate and the graduate program. To apply for this option, students must have completed their sophomore year, have and maintain a GPA of at least 3.0, and declare their intent to complete the graduate program following the completion of the baccalaureate degree. If accepted, students must obtain special permission to register for double counted courses and will receive graduate student credit when the undergraduate degree has been conferred and they have been fully admitted into one of our graduate programs. Please contact the Department Graduate Coordinator for detailed information.
Contact Dr. Dennis WAskul for more information
Apply Today
Sociology Minor
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
22
Locations
Mankato
Apply
The Sociology program has moved from 3-credit courses to 4-credit courses beginning Fall 2023. If you were enrolled in the Sociology program prior to these changes, please
view older catalogs
with applicable program requirements and course information. A list of appropriate course substitutions can be found in
Course Substitution
. The new program requirements can be found in
Sociology BS and Minor Requirements
.
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
Choose 4 Credit(s).
SOC 101
Introduction to Sociology
4 credits
Overview of the structure and processes of social life; impact of social forces on individuals and groups; interdependence of society and the individual; social significance of social class, race, ethnicity, gender, and sexuality; emphasis on critical analysis of social inequalities and injustice.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-05, GE-08
Diverse Cultures: Purple
SOC 150
Social Problems
4 credits
A critical description and analysis of selected social problems, as well as the social problems process through which problems are socially constructed and defined. A social constructionist approach examines how people and social systems define and react to social problems. Emphasis on the sociological perspective, critical thinking, roots of social inequality, and exploration of solutions and alternatives to existing social problems.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-05, GE-07
Diverse Cultures: Purple
Unrestricted Electives
Choose 18 - 20 Credit(s). * At least 8 credits must be at the 300-400 level.
SOC 100 - 499
credits
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
