Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/sociology/graduate/sociology-graduate-certificate/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Sociology
Graduate Programs
Sociology, Graduate Certificate
Sociology Section
Sociology
About Sociology
Faculty and Staff
Contact Sociology
Sociology, Graduate Certificate
The 18-credit graduate sociology certificate program provides the credentials required for instructors to teach sociology courses at community colleges or concurrent enrollment sociology courses in high schools. Minnesota is one of numerous states that requires community college instructors to have at least eighteen graduate credits in a discipline to teach courses in that discipline. The program is designed to be both convenient and attractive to working professionals, as most of its courses will be offered in an online, asynchronous format. The certificate program contains core courses that adequately cover the foundations of the discipline of sociology as well as some elective courses that allow students to explore substantive areas of sociological interest.
Enrollment Begins Fall 2025
Admission to the program opens Fall 2025, but students may begin course work now. Reach out to
Graduate Program Director Dennis Waskul
for questions.
Current Catalog Year
Degree
Certificate
Total Credits
18
Locations
Mankato
Online
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Required Core
(9 credits, all online asynchronous).
SOC 603: Seminar in Social Psychology (3 credits)
A survey and analysis of major scientific approaches to human social behavior.
Prerequisites: none
SOC 606: Seminar in Sociological Theory (3 credits)
An overview of sociological theory that spans the classical and contemporary traditions within the discipline and focuses on current theoretical issues and controversies within the field.
Prerequisites: none
SOC 608: Seminar in Social Inequality (3 credits)
This course is an analysis of the meaning, social construction and significance of race, class, gender, sexuality, ethnicity, and other boundaries within the pluralistic culture of the United States and in a global world. The course unpacks the mechanisms by which inequalities are maintained in organizations of education, politics, labor market, criminal justice system, sports, neighborhood boundaries, marriage and family, migration, nation, and citizenship. The course explores the matrix of domination and structural dimensions of life by considering sociological critiques of social institutional analyses.
Prerequisites: none
Electives
9 credits. Online asynchronous options are available, as are hybrid and in-person courses):
Any 9 sociology credits at the 500- or 600-level.
Admissions RequirementsInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
