Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/sociology/graduate/sociology-general-emphasis-ma/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Sociology
Graduate Programs
Sociology, MA
Sociology Section
Sociology
About Sociology
Faculty and Staff
Contact Sociology
Accelerated Combined Degree (BA/BS and MS)
Undergraduate students in our Sociology and Corrections programs interested in pursuing a master’s degree in either of these two fields may be granted permission to double count up to 12 credits for both the undergraduate and the graduate program. To apply for this option, students must have completed their sophomore year, have and maintain a GPA of at least 3.0, and declare their intent to complete the graduate program following the completion of the baccalaureate degree. If accepted, students must obtain special permission to register for double counted courses and will receive graduate student credit when the undergraduate degree has been conferred and they have been fully admitted into one of our graduate programs. Please contact the Department Graduate Coordinator for detailed information.
Contact Dr. Dennis WAskul for more information
Sociology (MA)
Sociology seeks to understand the social world. The program strongly emphasizes the diversity of sociological theories and research methodologies. Upon this foundation, the program provides an in-depth apprenticeship in the discipline of sociology by combining core courses, diverse subject areas, and the opportunity for intensive academic specialization. This program is ideally suited for those who wish to continue their education, earn a Ph.D. and plan a career in college teaching or research. It is also appropriate for those who choose to pursue careers applying sociology in a variety of work settings.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Master of Arts
Major /                                         Total Credits
33 / 33
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Student Expectations
Students are required to maintain a 3.0 grade point average for the entire degree program. Half of all graduate credit applied toward the degree must be earned in courses at the 600 level. Up to six credits may be taken outside of the department with the approval of a student's advisor. The student must complete all graduate degree requirements within six years.
Alternate Plan Paper or Master's Thesis
A master's thesis is written under the supervision of the student's thesis advisor and examining committee. The thesis may be original research, an historical review, replication of an existing study, secondary analysis of available data, or applied research. Thesis requirements include an oral defense of the thesis proposal at the beginning of the project and a successful oral defense upon completion of the work.
View Admission Requirements
Request Information
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
SOC 600
Proseminar
3 credits
Proseminar is an introduction to the sociology graduate programs at MSU Mankato and broader issues related to graduate education. Students will learn about program requirements; differences between capstone options (thesis or alternate plan paper) how they are structured and time-lines for completion; department plagiarism policy and how to avoid plagiarism; become familiar with library resources; become familiar with the policies and procedures of the IRB; meet department graduate faculty and become familiar with their areas of expertise, scholarship, and graduate courses they teach. Proseminar is an important course that prepares students for a timely completion of their graduate degree.
Prerequisites:
none
SOC 603
Seminar: Social Psychology
3 credits
A survey and analysis of major scientific approaches to human social behavior.
Prerequisites:
none
SOC 604
Seminar: Social Statistics
3 credits
Appreciation of basic multivariable methods in the analysis of sociological data. Includes computer applications using SPSS and application to various social issues.
Prerequisites:
none
SOC 605
Seminar: Social Research
3 credits
Advanced-level introduction or review of social science research methods, including entire research process: problem definition, literature review, hypothesis development, method development, data collection, analysis, interpretation, and communication; focuses on quantitative methods.
Prerequisites:
none
SOC 606
Seminar in Sociological Theory
3 credits
An overview of sociological theory that spans the classical and contemporary traditions within the discipline and focuses on current theoretical issues and controversies within the field.
Prerequisites:
none
SOC 608
Seminar in Social Inequality
3 credits
This course is an analysis of the meaning, social construction and significance of race, class, gender, sexuality, ethnicity, and other boundaries within the pluralistic culture of the United States and in a global world. The course unpacks the mechanisms by which inequalities are maintained in organizations of education, politics, labor market, criminal justice system, sports, neighborhood boundaries, marriage and family, migration, nation, and citizenship. The course explores the matrix of domination and structural dimensions of life by considering sociological critiques of social institutional analyses.
Prerequisites:
none
Restricted Electives
Choose 9 - 12 Credit(s). Any 500/600 level elective courses selected in consultation with an advisor.
SOC 500 - 699
credits
Prerequisites:
none
Capstone Course
Choose Thesis or APP
- Choose 1 - 3 Credit(s).
SOC 694
Alternate Plan Paper
1-2 credits
Preparation of an alternate plan paper under supervision of the student's graduate advisor. Prereq: must be enrolled in the MS program in Sociology.
Prerequisites:
none
SOC 699
Thesis
1-3 credits
.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
