Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/world-languages-and-cultures/spanish-program/graduate/spanish-ms/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
World Languages & Cultures
Spanish
Graduate Programs
Spanish, Master of Science (MS)
World Languages & Cultures Section
World Languages & Cultures
French
German
Scandinavian Studies
Spanish
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Spanish for the Professions, MS (Online)
Spanish, Master of Science (MS)
Spanish for Professionals, Graduate Certificate
Faculty and Staff
Student Resources
World Languages & Cultures Faculty & Staff
Spanish (MS)
The Spanish MS is for broad training in Spanish language, literature, linguistics and cultures of Spanish-speaking countries and is suited for students who plan to teach at the post-secondary level or pursue additional graduate study. Licensure is not required to teach at the college level, but courses in teaching skills are highly recommended. Students take World Language Teaching methods course(s) and professional education courses.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Master of Science
Major /                                         Total Credits
34 / 34
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
* Thesis = 30 credits
* Alternate Plan Paper = 34 credits
WLC 560
Methods of Teaching Modern Languages
3 credits
This course is intended to provide prospective secondary school teachers and teachers of modern languages with experience and background to prepare them for teaching modern languages to secondary school children. The course meets state licensure requirements. Major topics include: Second language acquisition and child language development; Comprehension-based teaching strategies; Standards-based curriculum development and planning; Integrating modern languages with secondary school curriculum: subject content instruction Teaching and assessing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills.
Prerequisites:
none
Research/Methods Course(s)
SPAN 600
Research, Resources and Writing
3 credits
This course introduces students to research methods, scholarship, documentation and evaluation of scholarship for literary and non-literary (professional) topics. In this course, students also apply strategies, methodologies and theoretical foundations to an individualized writing project in support of the capstone (thesis, APP, portfolio) and graduate papers.
Prerequisites:
none
Restricted Electives
Major Teaching Field
- Choose 15 - 18 Credit(s). Choose any 500/600 level Spanish courses selected in consultation with an advisor.
Professional Education
- Choose 6 Credit(s). Choose any 500/600 level Professional Education courses selected in consultation with an advisor.
Unrestricted Electives
Choose 0 - 4 Credit(s). Choose any 500/600 level elective courses selected in consultation with an advisor.
Capstone Course
Choose 1 - 3 Credit(s).
SPAN 699
Thesis
3-6 credits
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
