Link: https://ed.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/special-education/special-education-academic-and-behavioral-strategist/

College of Education
Academic Programs
Special Education
Special Education Academic and Behavioral Strategist GC
Special Education Section
Special Education
Special Education Academic and Behavioral Strategist BS
Special Education MS
Special Education Academic and Behavioral Strategist GC
Special Education Autism Spectrum Disorders GC
Special Education Developmental Disabilities GC
Special Education Early Childhood Special Ed GC
Special Education Emotional Behavioral Disorders GC
Special Education Learning Disabilities GC
Standards of Effective Practice for Teachers GC
Theory and Practice in Special Education GC
Faculty & Staff, Special Education
Apply for Special Education
Project PASS-IT
SPED Pipeline Grant Partnership
Academic and Behavioral Strategist (GC)
This program will prepare teacher candidates to work as special education teachers for students with mild moderate disabilities and will prepare them for licensure as an Academic and Behavioral Strategist.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
10 / 10
Locations
Online
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Restricted Electives
The Academic and Behavioral Strategist Graduate Certificate is a variable certificate with 10 to 14 credits.
Core Competency Courses
- Choose 10 - 14 Credit(s). Core Competency Courses. This certificate is specifically designed to meet a subset of the MN Professional Educator Licensing and Standards Board (PELSB) Licensure Standards. A student admitted to this program must work with an advisor to determine the exact number of credits needed to meet PELSB licensure standards.
SPED 614
Strategies for Teaching Learners with Special Needs: Reading and Writing
4 credits
This course teaches how to select and apply specific evidence-based reading and writing strategies for students with mild/moderate disabilities. Students will learn basic instructional principles behind validated instructional models and how to use these models in different instructional settings.
Prerequisites:
none
SPED 615
Math assessment and instruction for struggling learners
4 credits
This course will provide teacher candidates with instruction in instructional design, instructional delivery, and classroom organization and management they can use to influence student acquisition of mathematics and science skills and concepts.
Prerequisites:
none
SPED 656
Initial Graduate Seminar: Special Education
3 credits
This is an accompanying course for initial licensure Special Education teacher candidates in the areas of ASD, DCD, EBD, LD, and ECSE.
Prerequisites:
none
SPED 670
Student teaching: Academic and Behavioral Strategist
3 credits
Field experience in off-campus programs providing services to student with mild/moderate disabilities.. Designed to professionalize the educational experience and ensure license standards competency.
Prerequisites:
none
A student admitted to this program must work with an advisor to determine the courses needed to meet PELSB licensure standards. Courses from other graduate certificate programs in the department of special education will be needed to meet all licensure standards.Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
