Link: https://ed.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/special-education/special-education-developmental-disabilities-gc/

College of Education
Academic Programs
Special Education
Special Education Developmental Disabilities GC
Special Education Section
Special Education
Special Education Academic and Behavioral Strategist BS
Special Education MS
Special Education Academic and Behavioral Strategist GC
Special Education Autism Spectrum Disorders GC
Special Education Developmental Disabilities GC
Special Education Early Childhood Special Ed GC
Special Education Emotional Behavioral Disorders GC
Special Education Learning Disabilities GC
Standards of Effective Practice for Teachers GC
Theory and Practice in Special Education GC
Faculty & Staff, Special Education
Apply for Special Education
Project PASS-IT
SPED Pipeline Grant Partnership
Special Education: Developmental Disabilities (GC)
The program is for an individual seeking an initial teaching license, add-on teaching license, or additional knowledge in developmental cognitive disabilities. Students work with an advisor to determine a plan of study for all courses needed.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
10 / 10
Locations
Online
Accreditation
CAEP
Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Restricted Electives
The Developmental Disabilities Graduate Certificate is a variable certificate with 10 to 14 credits.
Core Competency Courses
- Choose 7 - 11 Credit(s). Core Competency Courses. This certificate is specifically designed to meet MN Board of Teaching (BOT) Licensure Standards. A student admitted to this program must work with an advisor to determine the exact number of credits needed to meet MN BOT licensure standards.
SPED 652
Characteristics and Assessments: Students w/DCD
4 credits
This course will provide students with foundational background knowledge of developmental disabilities, and characteristics and assessments associated with students with developmental disabilities. Topics covered will include: characteristics, historical perspectives, identification and assessment, family perspectives, learning characteristics and educational models.
Prerequisites:
none
SPED 653
Methods and Behavior Strategies: Students w/DCD
4 credits
This course addresses curricular approaches, instructional strategies, inclusion techniques, adaptive techniques, assistive technology, behavior techniques, and other specialized interventions needed to serve students with moderate to severe developmental and multiple disabilities effectively.
Prerequisites:
none
SPED 655
Graduate Student Teaching: DCD
3 credits
Student teaching is designed to provide graduate students an opportunity to demonstrate the knowledge and skills learned in their coursework and demonstrate the knowledge and skills needed to effectively teach students with developmental cognitive disabilities in a classroom setting.
Prerequisites:
none
Licensure Requirement
- Choose 3 Credit(s). Students without an existing special education license are required to take SPED 656
SPED 656
Initial Graduate Seminar: Special Education
3 credits
This is an accompanying course for initial licensure Special Education teacher candidates in the areas of ASD, DCD, EBD, LD, and ECSE.
Prerequisites:
none
SPED 659
Advanced Graduate Seminar: Special Education
4 credits
This course is an accompanying course for all advanced licensure Special Education teacher candidates.
Prerequisites:
none
A student admitted to this program must work with an advisor to determine the courses needed to meet MN BOT licensure standards. Courses may be needed from other graduate certificates in the department of special education.Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
