Link: https://ed.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/special-education/standards-of-effective-practice-for-teachers-gc/

College of Education
Academic Programs
Special Education
Standards of Effective Practice for Teachers GC
Special Education Section
Special Education
Special Education Academic and Behavioral Strategist BS
Special Education MS
Special Education Academic and Behavioral Strategist GC
Special Education Autism Spectrum Disorders GC
Special Education Developmental Disabilities GC
Special Education Early Childhood Special Ed GC
Special Education Emotional Behavioral Disorders GC
Special Education Learning Disabilities GC
Standards of Effective Practice for Teachers GC
Theory and Practice in Special Education GC
Faculty & Staff, Special Education
Apply for Special Education
Project PASS-IT
SPED Pipeline Grant Partnership
Standards of Effective Practice for Teachers (GC)
The certificate is for individuals seeking an initial license in special education. Students work with an advisor to be enrolled in this certificate program.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
11 / 11
Locations
Online
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Restricted Electives
The SPED: Standards of Effective Practice Graduate Certificate is a variable certificate with 12 to 16 credits. Up to 16 credits may be required to meet the licensure requirements for the State of MN.
Licensure Requirement
- Choose 12 - 16 Credit(s). Core Competency Courses. Students admitted to this program, who are seeking a MN teaching license, must work with an advisor to determine the courses needed to meet the MN BOT licensure standards.
SPED 509
Educational Psychology
3 credits
This course is designed to introduce students to theories of learning and human development as they relate to regular and diverse learning populations. Students will acquire an understanding of the many factors that affect learning and human development and strategies that can be used to enhance learning for all learning populations.
Prerequisites:
none
SPED 511
Differentiation & Accommodation in an Inclusive Classroom: Diverse Learners
3 credits
This course is designed to describe and demonstrate strategies that teachers can use to differentiate the curriculum to meet the special learning needs of students in an inclusive classroom setting. This course will also examine the latest knowledge related to intelligence, creativity, holistic education, and classroom differentiation.
Prerequisites:
none
SPED 513
Professional Growth and Development for Teachers of diverse Learners
3 credits
This course will introduce students to methods and strategies for personal and professional growth and development. Students will engage in reflective inquiry, identify professional dispositions, and describe environment effects on learning and human development.
Prerequisites:
none
SPED 619
Educational Technology/ Assistive Technology
3 credits
This course will introduce teacher candidates to different aspects of being a Special Educator, including writing Individualized Education Program plans, working collaboratively, addressing strategies for working with paraprofessionals, including co-teaching and using technology in the classroom to assist student learning.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
