Link: https://cob.mnsu.edu/academics/accounting/certificate-in-taxation/

College of Business
Academic Programs
Accounting
Certificate in Taxation
Accounting Section
Accounting
Master of Accounting (MAcc) Online
Certificate in Taxation
Bachelor of Science in Accounting
Minor in Accounting
Accelerated Accounting Certificate (AAC)
The Abstract Accounting Magazine
Accounting Advisory Council
Request Information
Taxation (GC)
The Taxation graduate certificate is designed for students and professionals who want a solid foundation of knowledge in taxation. Classes allow students to emphasize fundamentals of federal income tax, tax research and consultancy, taxation of corporations, taxation of partnerships, and special topics related to taxation. The certificate offers exceptional value for individuals interested in a successful career in taxation.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
10 / 10
Apply
The fully online Graduate Certificate in Taxation (GCT) program is designed for students and professionals who want a solid foundation of knowledge of the tax field.
The Taxation Certificate is available for Master of Accounting and Non-degree seeking students.
Admissions:
Admitted certificate program students are required to maintain academic standards, including grade-point.
All courses for a certificate program must be completed online through Minnesota State University, Mankato. No transfer credit is granted. Courses earned in this certificate program may also be used toward the Master of Accounting.
Applicants should have appropriate undergraduate/professional background in taxation.
Questions?
Contact:
Dr. Byron Pike
Address: Morris Hall 150
Phone: 507-389-6909
Email: byron.pike@mnsu.edu
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
MACC 655
Fundamentals of Federal Income Tax
2 credits
The course examines significant principles of the federal tax system as applied to individuals and entities to provide a deeper understanding and appreciation of tax rules and underlying policies. The course will utilize the study of critical tax cases and application of tax laws to factual scenarios.
Prerequisites:
none
Restricted Electives
Choose 8 Credit(s).
MACC 615
Accounting Theory
2 credits
The theoretical structure underlying financial accounting will be discussed. The relationship of accounting theory to basic financial statements and standard setting will be analyzed. Case analysis will require research in accounting standards and application of those standards to various situations.
Prerequisites:
none
MACC 635
Special Topics in Accounting
2 credits
This course addresses specialized topics in accounting, auditing, or taxation. Topics will vary by semester.
Prerequisites:
none
MACC 650
Tax Research and Consultancy
2 credits
This course concentrates on the skills needed to research tax questions. The research process employed to ascertain the state of the Federal tax law applicable to the facts, and the formulation of conclusions and professional recommendations is also explored.
Prerequisites:
none
MACC 651
Taxation of Partnerships
2 credits
This course examines the tax impact of the conduit rule, partnership formation, operation, sale and dissolution of a partnership; income to the partners, withdrawal and retirement of partners; and basis calculations.
Prerequisites:
none
MACC 652
Taxation of Corporations
2 credits
This course examines issues and rules governing the taxability of C-corporations and their shareholders. The tax concepts and rules related to the activities of formation, operations, distributions, and liquidation are reviewed for the C-corporation entity and its shareholders.
Prerequisites:
none
MACC 660
Applied Business Analytics
2 credits
This course addresses the importance of using data for business decision making purposes. Students will learn to identify specific business problems, evaluate potential solutions, and use data to provide a foundation for making sound business decisions. This will be accomplished through the use of systematic problem solving tools, the exploration of commonly used business analytics methodologies, and the learned use of specific software packages.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
