Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/english/english-degree-programs/teaching-english-to-speakers-of-other-languages-program/undergraduate/teaching-english-as-a-foreign-language-certificate/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
English
English Degree Programs
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL)
Undergraduate Programs
Teaching English as a Foreign Language, Certificate
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) Section
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL)
Undergraduate Programs
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages, Minor
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages: Non-licensure Preparation Minor
Teaching PK-12 Multilingual Learners Certificate
Teaching English as a Foreign Language, Certificate
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages: K-12 ESL Licensure Preparation, Minor
Linguistics, Minor
TESOL Undergraduate Course Offerings
Graduate Programs
Student Resources
Faculty and Contact Information
Teaching English as a Foreign Language (CERT)
The Teaching English as a Foreign Language (TEFL) certificate prepares students to teach English to English learners in international contexts.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
9 / 9
Locations
Mankato
Online
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Major Restricted Electives
Choose 8 Credit(s).
ENG 482
Teaching Listening and Speaking to English Learners
4 credits
Introduction to theory and best practices of teaching second language listening and speaking to a variety of English learners in multiple contexts.
Prerequisites:
none
ENG 484
Teaching Grammar and Vocabulary to English Learners
4 credits
Introduction to theory and best practices of teaching second language grammar and vocabulary to a variety of English learners in multiple contexts - specifically focusing on content based teaching practices.
Prerequisites:
none
ENG 487
Teaching Reading and Writing to English Learners
4 credits
Introduction to theory and best practices of teaching second language reading and writing to a variety of English learners in multiple contexts.
Prerequisites:
none
Other Graduation Requirements
ENG 498
Internship
1-6 credits
On-site field experience, the nature of which is determined by the specific needs of the student's program option. May be repeated with change in topic.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
