Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/english/english-degree-programs/teaching-english-to-speakers-of-other-languages-program/undergraduate/teaching-pk-12-multilingual-learners-certificate/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
English
English Degree Programs
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL)
Undergraduate Programs
Teaching PK-12 Multilingual Learners Certificate
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) Section
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL)
Undergraduate Programs
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages, Minor
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages: Non-licensure Preparation Minor
Teaching PK-12 Multilingual Learners Certificate
Teaching English as a Foreign Language, Certificate
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages: K-12 ESL Licensure Preparation, Minor
Linguistics, Minor
TESOL Undergraduate Course Offerings
Graduate Programs
Student Resources
Faculty and Contact Information
Teaching PK-12 Multilingual Learners (CERT)
The Teaching PK-12 Multilingual Learners certificate provides teacher candidates an opportunity to complete a set of licensure-related courses intended to develop their foundational knowledge to work with multilingual learners.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
12 / 12
Locations
Mankato
Online
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Major Common Core
ENG 385
Introduction to Sociolinguistics
4 credits
This course introduces students to sociolinguistics with some specific focus on the role of culture and language in education. Topics of study focus on diverse student populations in American schools, particularly language learners. The course examines the interaction between language(s) and culture and helps students explore how individuals are members of many communities and are influenced by a host of different cultural markers, such as language, race, ethnicity, regionalism, social class, gender, and other differences.
Prerequisites:
none
ENG 486
Theories of Second Language Teaching and Learning
4 credits
Introduction to theories and classroom practices that have shaped second language teaching and learning. Topics of study focus on prominent second language learning/acquisition theories, individual and sociocultural factors in language learning, technology-based resources that enhance language learning, as well as practical issues and applications of theory in a wide range of instructional contexts.
Prerequisites:
none
Major Restricted Electives
Choose 4 Credit(s).
ENG 482
Teaching Listening and Speaking to English Learners
4 credits
Introduction to theory and best practices of teaching second language listening and speaking to a variety of English learners in multiple contexts.
Prerequisites:
none
ENG 484
Teaching Grammar and Vocabulary to English Learners
4 credits
Introduction to theory and best practices of teaching second language grammar and vocabulary to a variety of English learners in multiple contexts - specifically focusing on content based teaching practices.
Prerequisites:
none
ENG 487
Teaching Reading and Writing to English Learners
4 credits
Introduction to theory and best practices of teaching second language reading and writing to a variety of English learners in multiple contexts.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
