Link: https://ed.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/K12-secondary-programs/teacher-as-leader-gc/

College of Education
Academic Programs
K-12 & Secondary Programs
Teacher as Leader GC
K-12 & Secondary Programs Section
K-12 & Secondary Programs
Undergraduate Programs
Education, Masters of Arts in Teaching
School Library and Information Studies MS
Teaching and Learning MS
Culturally Responsive Teaching GC
Planning and Students' Learning GC
Teacher as Leader GC
Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Licensure GC
Faculty & Staff, K-12 and Secondary Programs
Capstone Projects
Teacher as Leader (GC)
The graduate certificate provides educators with research-based skills and frameworks to meet the needs of diverse student populations by critically exploring practice and research as a Teacher Leader Scholar with the goal of creating equitable student-centered learning experiences. The program is available to all teachers who wish to broaden their knowledge base, enhance their classroom performance and better serve the needs of all learners.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
9 / 9
Locations
Online
Apply
Courses within the Graduate Certificate in Teacher as Leader examine effective approaches that increase student-teacher, student-student, and student-community relationships, how to develop, lead, maintain, and sustain learning communities, and examine the role of the professional teacher as leader and scholar. Courses are presented online through the university course management system.
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
KSP 644
Accessing Diverse Partnerships to support students
3 credits
This course explores family, community, societal, and cultural influences in educating diverse student populations. Learners will examine theory and a range of strategies to develop equitable school, family, and community partnerships. Learners will identify strategies to collaborate with diverse stakeholders and develop asset-based frameworks to engage collaborative partnerships. Learners will explore and recognize organizational and cultural barriers to collaborative family and community partnerships.
Prerequisites:
none
KSP 665
Teacher Leader Scholar
3 credits
This course focuses on the examination of the learner¿s role as a teacher leader scholar in our diverse and evolving society. Learners analyze professional teaching, technology and social justice standards, and current educational trends and research to identify a problem of practice in education to target improvements. Learners collect data and information as evidence of the nature and scope of the problem and develop a plan for personal and/or professional growth to address the problem.
Prerequisites:
none
KSP 689
Supporting Learning through technology
3 credits
With a focus on digital literacy and digital equity, learners will critically analyze and evaluate educational technology frameworks, models, and research to support teaching and learning. Learners will learn how to use technology integration frameworks to guide decision-making about and evaluate use of technology. Learners consider teaching contexts to apply effective uses of technology to support students¿ learning needs with alignment to standards, learning goals, teaching strategies, and assessments.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
