Link: https://cset.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/integrated-engineering/technical-integration-design-minor/

College of Science, Engineering & Technology
Academic Programs
Integrated Engineering
Technical Integration and Design Minor
Integrated Engineering Section
Integrated Engineering
Integrated Engineering, Bachelor of Science, Engineering (BSE)
Project based Engineering (CERT)
Technical Integration and Design (CERT)
Technical Integration and Design Minor
Integrated Engineering Faculty
Technical Integration & Design Minor
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
16
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
ENGR 300
Introduction to Engineering Design for Non-Majors
4 credits
Students working towards a minor in the Department of Integrated Engineering will participate in and reflect on the engineering design process, the professional aspects of working on an engineering team, and the intersection of engineering projects and their major. Design activities include such things as scoping, modeling, experimentation, analysis, modern tools, design reviews,multi-disciplinary systems view, creativity, safety, business plans, and global/societal/environmental impacts.
Prerequisites:
Students must be admitted to the Department of Integrated Engineering minor or certificate programs.
ENGR 311W
Professionalism I
3 credits
Students learn and develop the elements of professionalism while operating in project teams interacting daily with clients from industry. Topics include leadership, metacognition, teamwork, written and oral communication, ethics and professional and personal responsibility.
Prerequisites:
none
ENGR 321
Engineering Core: Statistics
1 credits
Introduction to statistics in an engineering context. Design of experiments and data collection, descriptive statistics, inferential statistics including hypothesis testing, and statistical software are introduced and applied. Students will do in-depth learning of some aspect of content area. Coursework may be tied to project work.
Prerequisites:
Admission to major, minor or certificate programs.
ENGR 322
Engineering Core: Programming/Modeling
1 credits
Students gain breadth across all objectives and depth in either programming or mathematical modeling. Students will do in-depth learning of some aspect of content area. Coursework may be tied to project work.
Prerequisites:
Admission to major, minor or certificate programs.
ENGR 421
Advanced Engineering Core: Engineering Economics
1 credits
Engineering economics topics including time value of money, simple and compound interest, annualized cash flows, inflation, and capital budgeting decision tools such as net present worth, payback period, return on investment, benefit/cost ratio, break-even analysis, and basic income statement reports. Topics are applied in a deep learning activity that relates to the team design project or a personal finance decision.
Prerequisites:
Admission to major, minor or certificate programs.
ENGR 422
Advanced Engineering Core: Entrepreneurship
1 credits
Frameworks linking the entrepreneurial mindset to innovation. Includes connections to value propositions, profitability, customer requirements, and design decisions. Appropriate both for those who want to start a business and those who want to innovate within a going concern. Students will do in-depth learning of some aspect of the content area. Coursework may be tied to project work.
Prerequisites:
Admission to major, minor or certificate programs.
ENGR 492
Seminar
1 credits
Students learn about engineering practice through seminars with practicing engineers from industry and are assisted in their development as learners through workshops. This course is repeated by Integrated Engineering students every semester.
Prerequisites:
none
Elective
Choose 4 Credit(s).
ENGR 350 - 355
Elective Technical Competencies
credits
Prerequisites:
none
Courses are repeatable.Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
