Link: https://ed.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/educational-technology/Technology-Equity-and-Accessibility-for-Learners-GC/

College of Education
Academic Programs
Educational Technology
Technology, Equity, and Accessibility for Learners GC
Educational Technology Section
Educational Technology
Computer Keyboard and Related Technology GC
Education Technology MS
Technology, Equity, and Accessibility for Learners GC
Educational Technology for Adult and Professional Learners GC
Instructional Technology and Design GC
Online and Blended Learning GC
Technology, Equity, and Accessibility for Learners (GC)
The Technology, Equity, and Accessibility for Learners graduate certificate is focused on providing educators with research-based theories, frameworks, and models for effectively using technology to meet the needs of diverse students through instruction aligned to standards, learning goals, and assessments. Meeting the needs of individual students is emphasized through the equitable and accessible use of technology tools and applications.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
9 / 9
Locations
Online
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
KSP 624
Accessibility, Technology, and Learning
3 credits
This course will provide the learners with reflective and practical experiences for the integration of accessibility, technology and learning. Students will explore student characteristics and needs, learning goals and experiences, accessibility tools, differentiated instruction, and technology to design and evaluate integrated lesson plans.
Prerequisites:
none
KSP 667
Social Justice and Technology for Learning
3 credits
Through research and hands-on applications in education, learners will leverage technology to address global issues and adopt global perspectives. Learners will create relevant and authentic experiences that will help their students bridge local and global problems to take action for social justice.
Prerequisites:
none
KSP 689
Supporting Learning through technology
3 credits
With a focus on digital literacy and digital equity, learners will critically analyze and evaluate educational technology frameworks, models, and research to support teaching and learning. Learners will learn how to use technology integration frameworks to guide decision-making about and evaluate use of technology. Learners consider teaching contexts to apply effective uses of technology to support students¿ learning needs with alignment to standards, learning goals, teaching strategies, and assessments.
Prerequisites:
none
Note: The credits earned in the graduate certificate may double count toward the master's in Educational Technology. Please consult with your graduate advisor on your options.Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
