Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/theatre-arts/ta-degree-programs/graduate-programs/theatre-arts-ma/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Theatre Arts
Theatre Arts Degree Programs
Graduate Programs
Theatre Arts, Master of Arts (MA)
Theatre Arts Section
Theatre Arts
Theatre Arts Degree Programs
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Theatre & Dance, Master of Fine Arts (MFA)
Theatre Arts, Master of Arts (MA)
Theatre Arts Performances & Tickets
About Theatre & Dance
Theatre & Dance Faculty & Staff
Contact Theatre & Dance
Theatre Arts (MA)
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Master of Arts
Major /                                         Total Credits
30 / 30
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Research/Methods Course(s)
THEA 680
Theatre Research
3 credits
Techniques in advanced theatre research and appropriate project and thesis. F
Prerequisites:
none
Restricted Electives
Thirty credits of graduate level work is required to complete the Master of Arts degree, in addition to the thesis. A minimum of 17 credits must be at the 600 level. In addition to Theatre Research, specific plans of study are to be devised with the student's advisorInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
