Link: https://ed.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/special-education/theory-and-practice-in-special-education-gc/

College of Education
Academic Programs
Special Education
Theory and Practice in Special Education GC
Special Education Section
Special Education
Special Education Academic and Behavioral Strategist BS
Special Education MS
Special Education Academic and Behavioral Strategist GC
Special Education Autism Spectrum Disorders GC
Special Education Developmental Disabilities GC
Special Education Early Childhood Special Ed GC
Special Education Emotional Behavioral Disorders GC
Special Education Learning Disabilities GC
Standards of Effective Practice for Teachers GC
Theory and Practice in Special Education GC
Faculty & Staff, Special Education
Apply for Special Education
Project PASS-IT
SPED Pipeline Grant Partnership
Theory and Practice in Special Education (GC)
The certificate is for individuals seeking an initial license in special education or adding a special education license to an existing general education license. Students work with an advisor to be enrolled in this certificate program.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
15 / 15
Locations
Online
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Restricted Electives
15 credits is required to earn the graduate certificate from the university. Up to 22 credits may be required to meet the licensure requirements for the State of MN.
Licensure Requirement
- Choose 15 - 22 Credit(s). Core Competency Courses. Students admitted to this program, who are seeking a MN teaching license, must work with an advisor to determine courses needed to meet MN BOT licensure standards.
SPED 514
Literacy Methods for an Inclusive Classroom: Diverse Learners
4 credits
This course is designed to provide an introduction to reading and language arts instruction for special needs and other students in an inclusive classroom. As a result of taking this course, students will be able to plan and implement effective literacy lessons and utilize a variety of differentiation strategies.
Prerequisites:
none
SPED 548
Behavior Management and Learning Environments for Diverse Learners
4 credits
Applied practical approaches to improve academic and personal social behavior of special needs students in general education and special education settings. Principles of applied behavior analysis including reduction and enhancement procdures will be explored.
Prerequisites:
none
SPED 605
Intro to the Psychology and Education of Exceptional Children and Youth
3 credits
Current practices in the identification, placement, and education of exceptional children and youth. Emphasis on patterns of social, cognitive, language, and psychological development of exceptional children. Social, political, and economic advocacy issues.
Prerequisites:
none
SPED 639
Consultation, Collaboration, and Transition for students
4 credits
In-depth examination of the problems, trends, and procedures used in planning career development, pre-vocational, and vocational programs for the midly disabled. Program models, assessment, job analysis, placement, and employer-school relations are covered.
Prerequisites:
none
SPED 645
Formal/Informal Clinical Procedures
4 credits
Interpretation and implementation of psychological reports, formative and summative assessment data, enabling incorporation of relevant information/data into an evaluation report. Applied practical understanding, development, usage, and interpreation of information assessment tools determining identification and instructional design.
Prerequisites:
none
SPED 661
Special Education Law
3 credits
This graduate course is designed to assist educators to develop knowledge of the due process requirements outlined in Minnesota Rule and Statute as well as a working understanding of federal special education law under the Individuals with Disabilities Act (IDEA) and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act. Understanding the requirement of due process and federal special education law is critical in today's schools, both for teachers as well as administrators.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
