Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/urban-and-regional-studies/graduate/urban-planning-graduate-certificate2/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Urban and Regional Studies
Graduate Programs
Urban Planning, Graduate Certificate
Urban and Regional Studies Section
Urban and Regional Studies
News in URSI
URSI Leadership Fund
Urban and Regional Studies Faculty and Staff
Contact Urban and Regional Studies
Urban Planning (GC)
The program which provides the basic concepts, skills, and values for pursuing a career in local government planning. Designed to meet the basic standards of professional competency specified by the American Institute of Certified Planners (AICP). Appropriate for students who wish to develop a local government planning focus within a graduate degree program, or for students who have already earned their degrees and wish to prepare for a career shift.
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Certificate
Major /                                         Total Credits
12 / 12
Locations
Mankato
Edina
Apply
Gainful Employment Program Information
The Minnesota State System makes available data for some of Minnesota State Mankato's undergraduate and graduate certificate programs. Information includes: program length, program costs, students borrowing money, licensure requirements, college scorecard and additional information.
Program Report
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Common Core
URBS 602
Planning Process
3 credits
Survey of the history, concepts, values, and ethics of public-sector planning. Emphasis on practical and comprehensive approach to developing and implementing plans.
Prerequisites:
none
URBS 604
Planning Law
3 credits
This course covers the role of law and its influence on the planning profession. Specifically, the course addresses the legal standards by which land use is regulated and controlled in the United States.
Prerequisites:
none
URBS 661
Long Range & Strategic Planning
3 credits
Comprehensive planning process in urban areas, including basic studies, capital improvement programming, and exercises.
Prerequisites:
none
URBS 662
Planning the Built Enrironment
3 credits
Current planning, including zoning, subdivision regulations, annexations, and special projects.
Prerequisites:
noneInitial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
