Link: https://hss.mnsu.edu/academic-programs/urban-and-regional-studies/undergraduate/urban-and-regional-studies-minor/

College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Academic Programs
Urban and Regional Studies
Undergraduate Programs
Urban and Regional Studies, Minor
Urban and Regional Studies Section
Urban and Regional Studies
News in URSI
URSI Leadership Fund
Urban and Regional Studies Faculty and Staff
Contact Urban and Regional Studies
Apply Today
Urban and Regional Studies Minor
Current Catalog Year
2024-2025
Degree
Minor
Total Credits
18
Locations
Mankato
Apply
Program Requirements
Program
                                    Requirements
Core
URBS 150
Sustainable Communities
3 credits
This course will identify and analyze global social, economic, political and environmental problems impacting community viability and explore the full range of solutions to these problems. The course will view communities as complex, sustainable organisms and bring together the works of the great minds working on sustainability.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-05, GE-10
URBS 230
Community Leadership
3 credits
Introduction to community leadership-elected, professional, or voluntary-and the skills and values which support it.
Prerequisites:
none
Goal Areas: GE-09, GE-11
URBS 431
Urban Design Principles
3 credits
A basic working knowledge and vocabulary of urban design concepts and techniques in an applied problem solving context.
Prerequisites:
none
Electives
Select 9 credits from URBS upper division courses, or see advisor for approval.Initial deposit: N/A


Application Fee for Undergraduate: $ 20
Application Fee for Postgraduate: $ 40


Annual Fee for Undergraduate: $ 18,812
Annual Fee for Postgraduate: $ 14,918


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:
TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) score of 61 or better
Pearson Test of English (PTE) score of 47 or better
IELTS academic test score of 5.5 or better


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:
Different for every course and given in course content 


Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:
A cumulative high school GPA of 3.0 or higher or A rank in the top 50% of your high school class or An ACT composite score of 21 or higher and a minimum cumulative high school GPA of 2.7. If you do not meet the above admission requirements, you can submit additional information to consider when reviewing your application.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:
Applicants must possess the equivalent of a U.S. Bachelor's degree to be considered for graduate programs at Minnesota State Mankato. The degree must be earned at an institution recognized and approved to award the degree. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) is required by some academic programs.

English Language requirements of graduate programs is different for each course. Graduate programs only have IELTS and TOEFL test scores.
For Graduate Entry Requirements, some requirements like GPA, Score are mentioned on the course page so add them too.
