Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FUG00008%2F2%2FBA-Acting&auth=0Q1vpCGo6hyTBLztoI7GuQ&profile=_default&rank=20&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Undergraduate
Courses
BA Acting
Undergraduate Course
BA Acting
(International)
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Course options
3 years
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Acting (International)
UCAS code:
W83A
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years
Location:
East15 (Loughton) Campus
Based in:
East 15 Acting School
East 15 Acting School's BA (Hons) Acting (International) provides a complete preparation for careers in acting, tailored specifically for international students.
Built on the methodologies that have established East 15 as a highly respected drama training institution, BA Acting (International) combines core actor training techniques with the skills required to produce bold, international work.
The course develops your talent, imagination and skill, so that you graduate as a knowledgeable, professional actor. You'll develop a strong creative approach, a solid process, and gain the unique experience of being part of an international performance community shaped by artistic collaboration at the school.
We offer a broad range of scholarships and bursaries to support your studies with us. EU students are eligible for the
Undergraduate EU Scholarship
, which offers a discount of £5000 on annual tuition fees for each year of study. European students from non-EU countries (including Norway, Iceland and Turkey) could be eligible for a
regional scholarship
worth £3000. We have more scholarships available based on your country of residence or academic record. To explore these and check your eligibility, visit the
University of Essex scholarships and funding page
.
This course is taught at our picturesque
Loughton Campus
, which is located on the edge of East London. Our campus is just 30 minutes away by London Underground from the capital city's West End theatre district.
East 15 Acting School also offers a popular
one-year programme focused on the fundamentals of acting
. Our
full range of undergraduate courses
also includes programmes tailored to specific performance disciplines, as well as courses in
Creative Producing
and
Stage Management
.
Why we're great.
International cohort of students from across the world.
Intensive skill training by leading UK and international faculty.
Industry-ready intensive actor training by leading practitioners.
Our expert staff
Our training is by professionals and for professionals, allowing our graduates to work successfully across the globe.
Our international, outstanding teaching faculty is made up of professionals from all areas of live and recorded performance.
Learn more about our staff
here
.
Specialist facilities
Our
Loughton Campus
is perfectly located, providing access to both the rich, cultural diversity of London and an attractive and peaceful setting in which to study.
We are just a five-minute walk from London Underground station, Debden, where you can travel in only thirty minutes to Central London, West End theatres and mainline train stations including the Eurostar.
We have three sites at our Loughton Campus – Hatfields, Roding House and Unit Four. Hatfields is a beautiful Georgian dower house, set in five acres of lawns with orchards, flowerbeds and a small lake, providing an idyllic atmosphere for study, relaxation and performance.
Just a short walk from Hatfields is Roding House, a £1.3 million facility containing 10 rehearsal rooms, a green room/café, a sound recording studio and a video editing suite, and our costume department.
Next to Roding House, Unit Four is a £1.5 million facility which is home to the Stage & Production Management department. The Unit contains a large workshop, paint shop, prop shop, prop storage facilities and teaching spaces.
Our on-site Corbett Theatre is named in honour of Harry H Corbett, a key member of Joan Littlewood's Theatre Workshop and early benefactor of East 15. It is used extensively for student productions and is a practical training hub for our BA Stage and Production Management students.
The building is a medieval tithe barn that was dismantled and transported to Hatfields in the 1960s. These unusual origins create a unique performance space with a special atmosphere. Renovated to include full technical facilities, tiered seating for 130 people and fitted dressing rooms, the theatre provides an excellent resource for public productions, while the adjacent Bar and Café provides a social meeting point for students and staff.
Your future
Graduates of East 15's BA Acting (International) course regularly appear in stage, film, TV and radio productions throughout the world including; Stranger Things (Netflix), Killing Eve (BBC America), Skam (Denmark), Kentän laidalla (Finland), Vrata do Vrata (Serbia) and many more. Our graduates are currently working professionally in the UK, USA, Lithuania, Greece, Netherlands, Norway, China, Canada, Poland, Sweden, Denmark and Portugal.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
Applicants will need to submit a video audition and, if successful, complete a recall audition/workshop. Applicants should also have, or expect to have:
A-levels:
EE, or 32 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A-levels.
BTEC:
PP, or 32 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of the equivalent of 2 full A-levels.
Combined qualifications on the UCAS tariff:
32 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A levels or equivalent. Tariff point offers may be made if you are taking a qualification, or mixture of qualifications, from the list on our
undergraduate application information page.
T-levels:
Pass with E in core .
IB:
two Higher Level certificates with 33
IB Career-related Programme:
We consider combinations of IB Diploma Programme courses with BTECs or other qualifications.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Undergraduate Admissions team at
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If you do not require a student visa to study in the UK then we will assess your English language proficiency/ability at your interview or audition.
English language requirements for applicants whose first language is not English:
IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in each component, or specified score in another equivalent test that we accept.
Details of English language requirements, including component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
If we accept the English component of an international qualification it will be included in the academic levels listed above for the relevant countries.
English language shelf-life
Most English language qualifications have a validity period of 5 years. The validity period of Pearson Test of English, TOEFL and CBSE or CISCE English is 2 years.
If you require a Student visa to study in the UK please see our
immigration webpages
for the latest Home Office guidance on English language qualifications.
Pre-sessional English courses
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Pending English language qualifications
You don’t need to achieve the required level before making your application, but it will be one of the conditions of your offer.
If you cannot find the qualification that you have achieved or are pending, then please email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
.
Additional Notes
If you’re an international student, but do not meet the English language or academic requirements for direct admission to this degree, you could prepare and gain entry through a pathway course. Find out more about opportunities available to you at the
University of Essex International College
Structure
Course structure
The BA Acting (International) course is dynamic and unique. The ethos of the programme combines 60 years of East 15 tradition, European influences and modern developments in actor training that embrace the changing nature of the performance industry. The course has a strong focus on creating new work with a global focus.
Each week, you'll receive training in key skills such as voice, movement and singing, alongside practical sessions in the art and craft of acting. Through workshops and small projects, you'll explore topics such as rehearsal techniques, approaches to text, acting honestly under imaginary circumstances, stage and screen craft, and voice acting.
As you progress through the course, you will build upon what you've learned each year, honing your craft to launch your professional career. Progression is carefully sculpted to challenge and support you as you gain skills and experience, steadily growing in aptitude, confidence and mastery of your art. In your final year, you'll take part in sessions on professional preparation, that will prepare you for a career either in the UK or abroad.
Our carefully selected modules will enable you to develop a grounded, professional and personal process, equipping you to succeed in a demanding profession.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
Year 2
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Introduction to Acting Theory, Methods and Practice, and Development From Self to Character
(15 CREDITS)
This core first year acting module provides an initial training in acting theory, method and practice based on the uniqueness of the individual and the ability to change, adapt, extend, perceive, accept and reject.

Students move through self-study to look outside themselves, approaching firstly improvised situations and then scripted text in imaginative and collaborative ways. By the end of the course you will know how to start work on a play and will have begun collaborative text work. You are able to begin to create a character from a text and to start the process of creating the world of the play.
View Introduction to Acting Theory, Methods and Practice, and Development From Self to Character on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Verbatim Theatre and Contemporary Scene Study
(15 CREDITS)
For this core first year acting module students work in small groups to study scenes from a contemporary play, learning how to divide a scene into units of action, how to discover objectives for a character and use the text to discover information – about the play, its themes and characters.

You workshop scenes in your groups, practising your learning from the early part of the course. By the end of this block of work you will be able to find a character’s through line and recreate work achieved during the rehearsal process.
View Verbatim Theatre and Contemporary Scene Study on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Actor and Text
(15 CREDITS)
This core first year acting module provides opportunities for students to apply the introductory learning of Introduction to Acting Theory, Method and Practice to more demanding textual and acting challenges.

You continue to advance your actor training through a focussed approach to the theatre of a particular period. Work on this course will be informed by your learning on Contextual Studies.

The work of this module progresses into second year when it informs and supports the acting/voice project in Acting Techniques and Styles.
View Actor and Text on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Improvised Living History
(15 CREDITS)
This core first year acting module provides you with opportunities to play out the life of a character under simulated rather than ‘staged’ conditions in order to understand more fully the true meaning of the character’s experience and emotional depths.
View Improvised Living History on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: CORE
Voice I
(15 CREDITS)
This core full year module is one of the programme’s four skills modules.

The work begins in Term One with an introduction to the anatomy of voice production. You will begin the work of acquiring good vocal habits through the use of basic vocal exercises. Techniques for direct communication with voice will be introduced.

In Term Two you will develop the structures used by voice. You will work on improving articulation and explore accents and the voices of others.

The work of the final term is on the vocal demands of acting, on developing clarity and power. By the end of the module you will have the ability to assess critically your own vocal capabilities and will have in place vocal exercises and a regime for future use.
View Voice I on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: CORE
Movement I
(15 CREDITS)
This core full year module is one of the programme’s four skills modules.

The work begins in Term One with an introduction to basic anatomy. You begin the work of developing suppleness and stamina. Techniques for the release of emotion in movement will be introduced.

In Term Two you develop balance, co-ordinations and rhythm, linking movement and dance with acting. You learn a range of styles and carriage.

The work of the final term covers preparation for physical demands and the extension of physical and dance vocabulary.
View Movement I on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: CORE
Music and Singing I
(15 CREDITS)
This core full year module is one of the programme’s four skills modules.
View Music and Singing I on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 08: CORE
Contextual Studies I
(15 CREDITS)
This core full year module is one of the programme’s four skills modules.
View Contextual Studies I on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Contextual Studies II
(15 CREDITS)
This module aims to encourage students to develop the ability to present, discuss and defend ideas in seminar and written contexts, consider how theatres reflect their own era, and gain an understanding of the relevance of commedia and other theatres to contemporary practice.
View Contextual Studies II on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Extension of Acting Methodology
(15 CREDITS)
Students will extend the work of EA211 to develop their performance technique and heighten awareness of the importance of relationships between characters. Texts chosen for this module will be based on the repertoire of Classic Naturalism and will include the work of Chekhov and other Russian dramatists. An important theme of the module is the conflict of old ideologies with the emerging new world.
View Extension of Acting Methodology on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Devising and Theatre Making
(15 CREDITS)
This second year core module is for students on the BA Acting (International) course. Students will gain experience of a range of play-making techniques through three structured projects, spread over the three terms. Typically, students work on each project in preparation periods of three to four weeks, culminating in a presentation towards the end.

Students will be given opportunities to understand processes and methods for creating performance involving dramaturgy, playwriting, devising, directing and creating performance for camera. Emphasis is placed on establishing a firm base for company or ensemble over the course of the year. Students are encouraged to contribute to the work of the ensemble beyond the limits of their own acting performance. Students will gain an understanding of the different roles and responsibilities in creating performance.
View Devising and Theatre Making                                                                          on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Shakespeare and Elizabethan Verse Drama
(15 CREDITS)
The work of this module in term three tests the progress of students’ acting methodology, technique and ability to the full. Exploration is undertaken on the breadth and variety of writing during this expansive period in history, to appreciate why Shakespeare towers over his contemporaries. Working on a full play, students will experience the demands of speaking verse and prose with equal ease, dexterity and clarity. You will be encouraged to make strong character decisions and integrate technical skills fully into the life of a character. Practical project work will enable you to gain an understanding of the requirements of a technical team in preparation for the professional training of the final year.

In this module you will be encouraged to sustain in a consistent way elements explored in previous modules, as well as integrating the technical aspects required by these physically and vocally demanding texts. You will be asked to show courage in taking risks within your character creation, and marry bold strokes with intricate detail.

You will work to demonstrate well developed and truthfully expressed relationships, connecting in an organic way the emotional inner life of a character, with the external communication of that life to an audience. You will be expected to be in charge of your creative choices bringing ideas of your own to the director of the project, and to contribute fully to the company as a whole. You will gain a deeper understanding of verse, phrasing, colour and the breathing demands of extended thoughts and ideas within a complex structure, and learn to incorporate the heightened language into your personal thought process.
View Shakespeare and Elizabethan Verse Drama on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: CORE
Voice II
(15 CREDITS)
In this module you will develop and apply the rigorous foundation work of first year and apply it to the more demanding dramatic texts being worked on in the second year Acting course. You will connect movement, voice and acting. You will begin exploring accents and dialects in more detail with a view to both acquiring accents and developing the skills and tools with which to work on accents throughout your career as an actor. You will begin to examine the vocal demands of different performance spaces, including outdoor performances, and develop your ability to give life to complex texts. The vocal demands of a range of performance styles, for example, Commedia dell’Arte, will be explored and students will be given opportunities to apply their vocal techniques to devised and text work of increasing complexity. The course is designed to prepare students for independence, to ensure that they enter their third year with voices of professional standard and the vocal training necessary to maintain them.
View Voice II on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: CORE
Movement II
(15 CREDITS)
The module consists of two units: Movement and Dance. The second year of Movement training is about deepening movement vocabulary and physical potential. You will learn to expand your range of physical choices in a variety of theatrical styles. Psycho-physical movement training becomes more specific and precise and this work continues alongside spontaneous body exploration. Alignment work is re-emphasised and applied to both acting challenges and movement improvisations.

The movement unit of this module is intended to develop appropriate levels of physical, emotional and imaginative agility and stamina in students. It is designed to encourage students to develop good movement practices, empowering them to look after their bodies and to sustain body alignment. By the end of the module students will have developed a working technique for physical characterisation.
The Dance unit is an investigation into dance historically and socially. You will look at the physical relationship between the economic and sociological climate of the day and its effects on dance style with the objective of integrating the investigation into an actor’s process. Your practical work will be supported by written documentation evidencing research into the place of dance in the relevant historical period.
View Movement II on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: CORE
Music and Singing II
(15 CREDITS)
Students will expand their ability to interact musically and dramatically in small ensemble pieces usually sourced from musicals and popular styles. In the second term you will progress to the interpretation of more complex and demanding material and performance situations, including public performance and in the third term you will work on expanding your singing range and vocal agility. By the end of the module you will have a substantial knowledge of vocal technique and will have acquired an automatically present technique both to support the singing and safeguard the voice. You will have at your disposal a repertoire of songs of different tempi and styles that fall within your acting and singing range in preparation for your work in final year. Students are encouraged to continue to develop personal warm-up exercise routines.
View Music and Singing II on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 08: CORE
Development of Acting Methodology
(15 CREDITS)
This second year acting module takes place in the first term and continues the text and exploratory work developed at the end of Year 1. By the beginning of the second year students are expected to be sufficiently prepared to undertake textual evaluation and research as part of their performance preparation work. Through a variety of plays and projects the second year of training aims to develop and extend the methodologies learned in first year as well as integrating technical skills into rehearsal and performance with gradually increasing consistency.
View Development of Acting Methodology on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE
New Plays Project
(15 CREDITS)
This module builds on the creative writing work you have been doing in your second year Contextual Studies module. New plays are selected by the module tutors from your own self-authored work, to be staged in a production for an invited audience, usually in a studio performance or an external theatre venue.

Through the process of staging the New Plays you are given opportunities to take on a range of roles and responsibilities, for example, of writer, actor and director, experiencing and learning the flexibility and versatility that characterises the professional contemporary theatre practitioner.

You put into practice the taught acting skills you have developed during Years One and Two and test the boundaries of your own creativity by applying your skills to the interpretation of untried texts. The process of staging the productions provide students with experience of collaborating with writers and directors.

By the end of the module you will have participated fully in creating and staging a piece of original, self-created work.
View New Plays Project on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Professional Preparation and Audition Technique
(15 CREDITS)
This module provides students with the necessary skills and preparation to launch their professional careers. Students will receive specific training in audition and interview technique, in marketing skills such as web design, CVs and letters of introduction and legal and financial issues affecting professional actors. Opportunities will be provided for workshops, meetings and lectures by and with industry professionals such as agents and casting directors, as well as with working actors and directors. Throughout the module students will be given practical assignments on which they will receive feedback from guest lecturers and industry professionals. This work is continued throughout Year Three.
View Professional Preparation and Audition Technique on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Notions of Realism
(15 CREDITS)
During this module you perform plays from a range of 20th century works to extend your performance repertoire and use of dialect.

Plays are directed by visiting directors thus providing you with opportunities to experience contrasting production methods and new stimuli from outside professionals.

The work of the module encourages you to adapt to production procedures beyond your experiences at East 15 Acting School.
View Notions of Realism on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Screen and Radio
(15 CREDITS)
In Term One, you extend Year Two screen work on acting for the screen and will have experience of audition, casting and interview situations for TV, film and commercials. You will experience the pressures of creating a role for TV and film by performing in a Show-reel and experiencing a ‘shoot’ under conditions similar to those of the industry. By the end of the unit you will have an understanding of the basic problems of listening and reacting, hitting the mark, eye lines and continuity. In addition, you will understand the need to apply “units and objectives” to screen acting and the perception of the actor’s persona on camera. At the end of this unit a professionally produced show-reel will be uploaded to spotlight.

In Term Two, you will produce your own show reel and undertake full responsibility for pre and post production work including: script selection and dramaturgy, location finding, filming, camera operation, sound recording, editing and uploading the finished work to Spotlight. To put into practice the widest possible range of students’ learning in the realisation of projects.

You extend your Year Two work on acting for radio and on microphone in order to fully understand techniques required for the profession. You develop acting and vocal skills in radio performance, with specific reference to radio drama.
View Screen and Radio on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: CORE
Final Productions
(30 CREDITS)
The final term culminates in productions that are designed to identify, extend and consolidate your strengths as a professional actor.

Plays are chosen to show students’ abilities to best advantage and to provide opportunities for full-scale ensemble work in public performance. The variety of selected plays extends your acquired knowledge and familiarises you with further aspects of drama and of playing to a varied public.

Final productions may be chosen as a result of student feedback or at the suggestion of directors and will take into account the male/female profile of the ensemble. Productions include all the final year students in an ensemble work often including music and dance to enable talented students to show their versatility. Final productions are given a run of shows normally in the Corbett Theatre or Tristan Bates Theatre, London.
View Final Productions on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: CORE
Voice, Movement, Music and Singing
(15 CREDITS)
By the final year of the course you are considered to be a performer and an actor. The work of skills classes in Terms One and Two of the final year in this coremodule focuses on your professional development.

Classes involve the preparation of your shows, audition pieces, preparation for the final Showcase performance and weekly classes to deal with any on-going problems and issues arising. You continue to develop and practice warm-ups and preparation for rehearsal and performance. The final year work allows you to establish patterns and pathways for creative well-being to follow throughout your working life.
View Voice, Movement, Music and Singing on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: CORE
Contextual Studies III
(15 CREDITS)
This is final year module concentrates on contemporary theatre. Students are encouraged to reflect on their course experiences and training and to prepare themselves for further professional and cultural challenges after graduation. You will use the research and writing skills you have learned in years one and two to consider new ideas in greater depth and to develop the ability to express arguments through a process supported by relevant research and source materials. This process will culminate in the third term when you will present your Personal Development Journal.
View Contextual Studies III on our Module Directory
Teaching
Year 1
Your first year focuses on introductory acting, voice, articulation, singing, movement and contextual studies. You explore your own creativity through co-operation, responsiveness to others and the ensemble. During your first year you will:
Work on objective self-assessment, development of observational skills and imagination, and re-creating through observation, research and improvisation
Understand how to act and react to emotional upheaval through a wide variety of texts
Your first year includes Verbatim Theatre and Contemporary Scene Study with a focus on British Plays of the 1950s-70s, and culminates in a major ‘Living History Project', in which you research, identify with and experience other people's lives through different periods of conflict.
Year 2
Your second year is a journey of maturation as the focus moves from improvisation to text, and from the examination of self to the exploration of character. We put emphasis on integrating vocal, movement and singing skills into a role and the opportunity to build your own characters independently is combined with honing these technical skills. During your second year you will:
Adapt to the differing demands of project and director and take responsibility for your own creative work
Explore the textual and psychological complexities of Shakespeare and Elizabethan Verse Drama
Develop acting skills required for film, television and radio work
Take responsibility for your own creative work
Year 3
Your final year focuses on the demands of professional performance before graduation and entry into the industry. Throughout the year you will:
Extend your performance repertoire through professional productions that demand research, advanced acting skills and full commitment
Devise, produce and perform work for our unique ‘IF' Festival. A multi-day event dedicated to original work by BA Acting (International) students which is live-streamed and open to industry guests
Work with industry professionals to further develop your skills in recorded media, resulting in footage for your own showreel
Learn from specialised, professional development workshops aimed at introducing you to the administrative aspects of your future profession: including audition technique, CV and letter writing, self-marketing and promotion
The year concludes with an Industry Showcase for an invited audience of influential agents, casting directors, film, voiceover, TV and theatre directors. East 15 continually liaises with industry professionals to ensure the format for the event accords with the changing landscape of the industry.
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£9,250 per year
Additional costs for materials and field trips of up to approximately £650 per academic year. Equipment lists are reviewed annually.
International fee
£21,525 per year
Additional costs for materials and field trips of up to approximately £650 per academic year. Equipment lists are reviewed annually.
Fees will increase for each academic year of study.
Home/UK fees and funding information
International fees and funding information
What's next
Applying
You can apply to our full-time undergraduate courses through either the
Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS)
or the
University of Essex Direct Application Form
.
If you choose to apply through UCAS, you can find step-by-step guidance on
how to fill your UCAS undergraduate application
. UK students (as well as some EU and international students) who are still in school or college may apply through their institution. Your school will help you complete and submit your UCAS application. The option to apply through UCAS is also available to independent UK and international applicants.
The UCAS code for the University of Essex is ESSEX E70. The individual campus codes for our Loughton and Southend Campuses are ‘L' and ‘S' respectively.
In addition your UCAS or University of Essex application, you must also submit an
East 15 Application Form
.
For full details on how to apply, please visit the
Applying for an Undergraduate Course
page on the East 15 website.
Apply now
Auditioning
Applicants to this course must submit a Round 1
video audition
as part of your
East 15 Application Form
. If successful at this stage, you’ll be invited to a Round 2 audition, which may take place on our campus, online, or at a regional or international audition.
Please note that we charge a £15 audition fee for Round 1 auditions. Fee waivers are available for eligible applicants. You can find out how to pay the audition fee or check your eligibility for a waiver on the
Applying for an Undergraduate Course
page.
Our staff regularly travel to conduct auditions worldwide. So if you’re not based in the UK, it’s likely that we may hold auditions near you. These will be one-on-one auditions. You can find the locations and dates of these auditions on our
International Auditions page
.
Offers for this course are made only after successful auditions.
For details of what to prepare for our auditions, please visit our
Preparing for Auditions
page.
Visit Loughton Campus
You’ll be in intensive training at one of the most prestigious and internationally respected conservatoires in the country, gaining the skills and knowledge necessary to pursue a career in the performing arts. You'll arrive at a campus with state-of-the-art study and performance facilities, nestled in the stunning grounds of a country house.
But fear not! It’s not all work and no play at
East 15 Acting School
in Loughton and you're just a short step away from the bright lights and big city of central London.
Find out more
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Related courses
BA Acting
Study mode:
Full-time
Location:
East15 (Loughton) Campus
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
CHAT TO US
ASK OUR STUDENTS AND STAFF ANYTHING
Read all about it
Get a prospectus
Study at Essex
Find a course
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website