Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FUG00011%2F1%2FBA-Acting-and-Fight-Performance&auth=DYOs5cSa24fCsSUs3no16Q&profile=_default&rank=24&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Undergraduate
Courses
BA Acting and Fight Performance
Undergraduate Course
BA Acting and Fight Performance
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Course options
3 years
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Acting and Fight Performance
UCAS code:
W412
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years
Location:
Southend Campus
Based in:
East 15 Acting School
Unique in both the UK and the world, East 15 Acting School's BA Acting and Fight Performance course provides a professional, vocational training in stage combat and performance. The course enables you to develop a variety of physical performance skills that combine discipline, focus and emotional connection. These include, but are not limited to, training in martial arts, gymnastics and multiple theatrical weapon systems.
Applicants must be able to face the strenuous physical demands of this course, which is ideal if you have a physical background and want to develop your skills in a creative context using your whole body to express character and story.
Students prepare to follow a career path in theatre, film, television and performance capture where they may choose to become actors, action performers or action directors, movement specialists or continue their training to become instructors in related fields.
This course is taught at our vibrant and modern
Southend Campus
. With its lively, state-of-the-art facilities and close-knit international community, Southend is the perfect environment for living and learning.
View more undergraduate courses from
East 15 Acting School
, including further Actor training programs as well as behind the scenes courses in Creative Producing and Stage & Production Management.
Why we're great.
A conservatoire actor training with a special focus on physical dramatic action.
Training in combat for stage & screen, including focuses on gymnastics and martial arts.
The only degree course of its kind with a three year focus on performance and combat skills.
Our expert staff
Our training is by professionals and for professionals, allowing our graduates to work successfully across the globe.
Our international, outstanding teaching faculty is made up of professionals from all areas of live and recorded performance.
Learn more about our staff
here
.
Specialist facilities
Our
Southend Campus
is based in the heart of Southend-on-Sea. A vibrant and modern British seaside town with excellent transport links.
Famous for its beach resort and pier, Southend-on-Sea stretches along seven miles of award-winning coastline. There are also over 650 acres of parks and gardens, a fun park, leisure centres, pubs, clubs, cafés and restaurants.
Southend Central railway station is opposite our Campus and the journey to central London takes less than an hour. Southend Airport, with flights to many European and UK destinations is just three miles away. We are also just one hour away from London's Stansted Airport.
Our Gateway Building houses a purpose-built suite specifically for East 15 students. This includes fully equipped, state-of-the art rehearsal studios with panoramic views across Southend-on-Sea, plus seminar rooms, computer labs and media production resources including an Apple Mac edit suite for our BA Creative Producing (Theatre & Short Film) students.
A magnificent Victorian former church in the heart of Southend's conservation area was converted into East 15's Clifftown Theatre. It also houses a variety of unique spaces for rehearsals, technical and practical work and performances. The church nave, with its original organ and stained glass windows now provides an inspirational and atmospheric environment, re-designed to accommodate the needs of a twenty-first century performance space.
In ‘The Forum' building, students have round the clock, secure access to the Learning Hub, which provides innovative IT and study spaces. The Forum also houses an integrated public and academic library, carrying books and other support materials. Students in Southend also have access to the East 15 Loughton Campus library and the University's Colchester Campus library.
Outside of learning, the Students' Union at our Southend Campus provides a dedicated space for students to meet, have a coffee, relax and watch films or sport. It runs a wide variety of entertainment throughout the term, such as international nights and open mic nights.
Your future
Over the years, a number of East 15 graduates have gone on to become leading actors, fight directors and stunt and specialist performers. This work extends from performing and choreographing staged fights on film, television, in the theatre, opera and ballet, to re-enactments of historic battles, animal and mechanical costume operating work for films as well as motion capture and green screen performance for the film and games industries.
“For three years I have not only thrown punches and swung swords, I have used puppetry, studied classical text, learnt to tumble, devised, written and acted, fired the occasional handgun and collaborated with and been taught by some incredible industry professionals that have pushed me to succeed.”
Dean Ridge, BA Acting and Stage Combat*
* This was the former name of this degree course. It was changed in 2024.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
Applicants will need to submit a video audition and, if successful, complete a recall audition/workshop. Applicants should also have, or expect to have:
A-levels:
EE, or 32 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A-levels.
BTEC:
PP, or 32 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of the equivalent of 2 full A-levels.
Combined qualifications on the UCAS tariff:
32 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A levels or equivalent. Tariff point offers may be made if you are taking a qualification, or mixture of qualifications, from the list on our
undergraduate application information page.
T-levels:
Pass with E in core
IB:
two Higher Level certificates with 33
IB Career-related Programme:
We consider combinations of IB Diploma Programme courses with BTECs or other qualifications.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Undergraduate Admissions team at
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If you do not require a student visa to study in the UK then we will assess your English language proficiency/ability at your interview or audition.
English language requirements for applicants whose first language is not English:
IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in each component, or specified score in another equivalent test that we accept.
Details of English language requirements, including component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
If we accept the English component of an international qualification it will be included in the academic levels listed above for the relevant countries.
English language shelf-life
Most English language qualifications have a validity period of 5 years. The validity period of Pearson Test of English, TOEFL and CBSE or CISCE English is 2 years.
If you require a Student visa to study in the UK please see our
immigration webpages
for the latest Home Office guidance on English language qualifications.
Pre-sessional English courses
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Pending English language qualifications
You don’t need to achieve the required level before making your application, but it will be one of the conditions of your offer.
If you cannot find the qualification that you have achieved or are pending, then please email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
.
Additional Notes
If you’re an international student, but do not meet the English language or academic requirements for direct admission to this degree, you could prepare and gain entry through a pathway course. Find out more about opportunities available to you at the
University of Essex International College
Structure
Course structure
We offer dynamic and unique courses for actors, directors, producers, technical theatre specialists and students of theatre practice. Training at East 15 draws upon 50 years of tradition combined with a keen sense of the world of stage and screen today.
Our carefully selected modules will give you the chance to explore and develop your specialist training.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
Year 2
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Stage Combat I
(30 CREDITS)
Unarmed Combat: This unit will introduce you to unarmed stage combat and during the course you will look at moves and techniques that are in common use in professional stage combat. 

Rapier and Dagger: This unit will introduce you to your first bladed weapons. Rapier and Dagger are the most commonly called for weapons system in stage work – as it was the Elizabethan / Jacobean choice of weapon.

Quarterstaff: Following assessment of skills proficiency in performance with Rapier and dagger and unarmed combat in the second half of term two this unit will introduce you to stage combat with staves. It is one of two units in which you use an individual, double-handed weapon.

Mediaeval Sword (hand and half broadsword): This unit will introduce you to stage combat with the Broadsword and is the second of the two units in which you will use an individual double-handed weapon.
View Stage Combat I                                                                                       on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Contextual Studies
(15 CREDITS)
Theatre History and Research Methodology: This unit is designed to present students with an overview of theatre history; you will examine the roots and traditions of British theatre history and consider the effects of key European influences on the development to Theatre and Drama in this nation.

Anatomy and Physiology: In this year-long unit you will study the human body – developing understanding of how it can be nurtured and destroyed. You will learn efficient ways to look after your own health, as well as the health and safety of others. 

Health and Safety:You will receive lectures to introduce the current legislation requirements, practices and accepted style of risk assessments and forms of evaluation that could be expected of you in the profession. Another strand of this course is the care of weapons, as poorly looked-after stage weapons can quickly become a hazard to performers.
View Contextual Studies                                                                                   on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Physical Skills I
(30 CREDITS)
Gymnastics, acrobatics and tumbling: The overall aim of the unit is to provide you with the capabilities of performing advanced physical routines. This will directly apply to unarmed stage combat and will also relate to armed combat and personal development.

You will be introduced to and train in martial arts. By studying Martial Arts you will begin to appreciate the motivation and intention behind real techniques, so that you will be able to apply this knowledge in a performance of unarmed stage combat and benefit from increased physical awareness and flexibility.

Movement: This unit will look at different styles of movement training than is offered in other units – with the principles rooted in the teachings of Alexander, Laban and other revolutionary movement practitioners. By understanding the way that we move and the habits that have developed, we can make an active choice to alter habitual and ineffective motion.
View Physical Skills I                                                                                    on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Performance Skills I
(30 CREDITS)
These units will look at the more traditional approach to actor training, grounded in the theories and methodologies taught at East 15 Acting School. The units will deal with relaxation, concentration and acting truthfully under imaginary circumstances. Term One will focus on widelyapplied principles, such as the understanding of self and habitual traits; improvisation; the creation of a dramatic character; focus and concentration; communication; script analysis; intentions and given circumstances.

You will be pushed towards finding a truthful approach to text, circumstances and your fellow actors –through both body and voice. You will be developing tools and skills that you will be able to apply in rehearsals and projects.
View Performance Skills I                                                                                 on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: CORE
Specialised Performance Skills
(15 CREDITS)
These units look at increasing your range of skills, while instilling the principles that will be taught in EA154 Performance Skills 1.

By concentrating on more specific disciplines, you will gain skills that will be called upon in performance, extend your range as a performer, and introduce alternative styles of approaching character or a rehearsal situation. These units provide the building blocks for further specialist skills and performances that you will encounter as you progress through the first year.
View Specialised Performance Skills                                                                       on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Stage Combat II
(30 CREDITS)
Term One - Two-handed Weapons Systems: This unit will build on the basics of Rapier and Dagger taught in Year 1 and introduce you to other forms of stage combat that require the manipulation of weapons with both hands.  Part of this will be sword and shield, in which you will use a shield as well as a bladed weapon for the first time. Additionally, you may explore other forms of fighting with multiple weapons such as Rapier & Buckler and Rapier & Cloak.  Using two weapons will require a greater degree of balance, as the students manipulate the weighty weapons in individual hands. The aim of the unit is to broaden students’ repertoire of weapon skills at advanced level appropriate to the standards demanded by the industry. It will call on the footwork and blade work covered in previous modules, but also introduce new manoeuvres specific to this weapon discipline. In this second year of study, more will be expected in relation to connecting the skills and techniques of a weapons system and in-depth character work and performance. The final assessment will place a great emphasis of the performance skills of the students.
 
 
 
Term Two & Three – Knife:This weapon skill introduces you to a new fighting distance - due to the length of the blade.  The techniques for knife combine the skills acquired in both unarmed and armed combat. In this second year of study, more will be expected in relation to connecting the skills and techniques of a weapons system and in-depth character work and performance.  The unit acquaints students with the advanced weapon skills necessary to perform in the professional arena.  It will call on the footwork and targeting covered in previous modules, but also introduce numerous new manoeuvre specific to this weapon discipline. The rhythm, tempo and speed of a knife fight will be completely different to any other weapon system you will have previously explored.
 
Terms Two & Three - Smallsword: This unit will introduce you to a new form of stage combat; this weapon and style will require a greater delicacy of swordplay, pointwork, and footwork than you will have previously encountered.  The style of fighting, stance and footwork are more demanding than previous weapons work.  In this second year of study, more will be expected in relation to connecting the skills and techniques of a weapons system and in-depth character work and performance.  The unit acquaints students with the advanced weapon skills necessary to perform in the professional arena.  It will call on the footwork and pointwork covered in previous modules, but also introduce new manoeuvres specific to this 18th-century weapon.
View Stage Combat II                                                                                      on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Contextual Studies II
(15 CREDITS)
This module aims to encourage students to develop the ability to present, discuss and defend ideas in seminar and written contexts, consider how theatres reflect their own era, and gain an understanding of the relevance of commedia and other theatres to contemporary practice.
View Contextual Studies II on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Physical Skills II
(30 CREDITS)
Gymnastics, Acrobatics and Tumbling: You will continue to develop both individual and team-related skills.  The experience of applying a variety of skills to differing performance situations will create a strong cornerstone for the work that will be required in the final year.

Martial Arts: As your skills and knowledge expand further you will start to blend your martial arts skills with stage combat and performance.

Movement and Dance: Explore the physical body in connection with the actor’s imagination. The student will learn and develop a process using movement as an integral part of acting by investigating character, relationships, and the physical world of the play. The dance unit will introduce you to ballet. In ballet, you will study movement that can be used to inform a great deal of “period style”. Ballet will also inform the balance and footwork that will be required when you progress to 18th-century smallsword. Note that we reserve the right to substitute other styles of dance. Term 3 will focus on social dance, to learn the dance of a different era and the social and gender politics that go with it.
View Physical Skills II                                                                                   on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Performance Skills II
(15 CREDITS)
The second year will begin to utilise the training that was established in Year One, by looking at acting theory into practice; direct application of singing and rhythm; strengthen vocal production and articulation in practice –possibly moving into accents. You will explore different methods of rehearsal and further exploration into the scenic unit. This term will have a greater focus on scripts and play-texts – directly applying your skills in practice.
View Performance Skills II                                                                                on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: CORE
Performance Projects
(30 CREDITS)
These projects concentrate on particular styles and apply the skills that you are gaining ina performance environment. You will explore different forms of character development and expression, methods of rehearsal and tackle the difficulties that arise when working on specialised projects. As in Year One, you will continue to gain a new mix ofskills and modes of character and story interpretation –and now will be applying them into projects. This will build up the experience of performance and introduce you to the demands that will be made in the final year.
View Performance Projects                                                                                 on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Stage Combat in Practice and Performance
(30 CREDITS)
This is a compulsory module for BA Acting and Stage Combat. During the first and second years students were trained in the use, style and overall performance of a range of combat/physical disciplines, giving them an appropriate base from which to apply these skills in complex performance scenarios in the BA Hons final year. The module takes working knowledge of weapons gained in Years One and Two of the degree, and applies it to professional performance situations.
 
You will move from being a performer of stage combat and work to understand the logic of choreography for theatrical violence, which calls upon a variety of physical and contextual skills. You will study the progression of story line and character action within a range of stage combat scenarios.
 
You will undertake units of work in fight choreography and fights on camera.
View Stage Combat in Practice and Performance on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Performance Projects
(30 CREDITS)
This is a third year module for the BA Acting and Stage Combat. The objective of the module is to give you the chance to utilise your previous training -acting, movement, voice, fighting and contextual studies -in performances. The work is practice-based and the majority of sessions will be in rehearsals. As in Years One and Two, assessment will be based on the processes of performance preparation through rehearsals and research and on the quality of the performances themselves.

There will be two performance projects aimed at introducing you to a further level of professional standards. In each production, you will work with a director, on a chosen text, to bring the world of the play to life. The play chosen will have scope for you to call upon a variety of your skills in creating truthful characters in set, given circumstances. The unit will call upon the acting, research, and physical skills that have been developed over the three years. The unit may provide opportunities for students to experiment with techniques in preparation for their Graduation Projects.
View Performance Projects on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Theatrical Appreciation
(15 CREDITS)
This BA Acting and Stage Combat module is designed to awaken students to a variety of processes that contribute to the making of a production. As the BA Hons programme continues to prepare you to engage and take part in a professional theatre environment, this module will introduce and explain the roles of various practitioners. You will experiment with different styles and techniques of staging, alongside learning about the duties of various theatre practitioners.

This final year module is designed to prepare you for the requirements of the Graduation Project and to introduce you to the basic working systems and organisation of professional theatre or touring theatre companies.
View Theatrical Appreciation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Contextual Studies
(15 CREDITS)
In Years One and Two, contextual studies were structured to develop students' abilities to cope with the rigours of honours level study. In Year Three the work consists of the Theoretical Thesis Project and the Career Preparation unit. The module provides opportunities for you to develop and utilise knowledge of the industry, its suppliers and production processes. It also, through the Theoretical Thesis Project, encourages you to free your creative imagination to devise, plan and present a full production on paper.
View Contextual Studies                                                                                   on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: CORE
Graduation Project
(30 CREDITS)
This final module is a devised project that will call upon on the skills and learning accumulated during the previous three years of study. Students will be divided into groups and will work with a Graduation Project Supervisor (GPS) in order to create a performance, suitable for public showing.

The final production will not simply be a display of "learned skills", butwill be an engaging piece of drama with a story, structure, and point of view. Much of the work for this project will be carried out independent of supervision -but the GPS will remain in constant contact with each group to ensure the creation of high-quality showing.

The detailed work of the module is dictated by the requirements of the specific project. It will include research, devising, rehearsals and performance.
View Graduation Project on our Module Directory
Teaching
Year 1
Your first year combines an intensive focus on stage combat and physical training along with acting techniques working from the East 15 philosophy, which is rooted in Stanislavski principles, character work and the creation of a fictitious yet truthful world. You will also:
Acquire and practice skills in numerous theatrical weapon systems
Train in physical skills such as martial arts, contact improvisation and gymnastics
Experience methods of acting from the traditional inside-outside methodology, as well as exploring outside-in approaches
Your traditional performance training is supplemented with voice, movement, Commedia dell'Arte, devising and contextual studies which help you to understand the skills you learn in terms of their historical significance and contemporary potential.
Year 2
Your second year continues to combine aspects of stage combat and physical training with the development of your acting abilities. This includes:
Skills such as voice, singing, and movement for actors
Different methods of rehearsal and further exploration into the scenic unit from a choreographic standpoint
Introduction to film and screen work
Exploring advanced weapons systems and continued training in martial arts
Further gymnastics training alongside learning the principles of acrobatics and tumbling, as well as classical and social dance and storytelling using a variety of physical skills
Your core skills training is integrated into performance and refined through projects in Shakespeare, animal studies and devised work. In the final term, students have the opportunity to apply their skills in a professional performance environment.
All work is supported with classes in contextual studies covering 20th Century Performance and the History of Fights on Film.
Year 3
Final year students will immediately notice the change in focus from the units of the first and second years. There is no longer an intense focus on building skills in specific weapon disciplines. The goal of the final year student is to combine combat training, acting skills and enhanced creativity to given circumstances.
You will move from being performers of stage fights and explore choreography, which will call upon a variety of physical and contextual skills. You will study the logic and progression of story line and character action within a stage fight and explore the different presentational requirements of a variety of performance venues in a range of scenarios and production briefs. You will be given opportunities to put your ideas into practice and will learn how to communicate your ideas to others.
You will be introduced to another group of theatre practitioners who will directly affect your practice: the technical department consisting of designers, costume and wardrobe, stage managers etc. and experience the demands of sustaining performance in a technical production.
Throughout the year you will:
Perform in a number of public productions, including text-based performances and a devised show
Harness and develop your skills through further study of stage combat in performance - looking specifically at choreography and fights for film
Continue on-screen work by performing in scenes for camera
Create your own devised work through a graduation project
You will also prepare for the professional arena with sessions in audition technique, personal management skills and the process of production preparation.
The year culminates with an Industry Showcase for an invited audience of influential agents, casting directors, theatre companies, and film, TV and theatre directors. East 15 continually liaises with industry professionals to ensure the format for the event accords with the changing landscape of the industry.
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£9,250 per year
Additional costs for materials and field trips of up to approximately £650 per academic year. Equipment lists are reviewed annually.
International fee
£21,525 per year
Additional costs for materials and field trips of up to approximately £650 per academic year. Equipment lists are reviewed annually.
Fees will increase for each academic year of study.
Home/UK fees and funding information
International fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
Our events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex. We run a number of Open Days throughout the year which enable you to discover what our campus has to offer. 
You have the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
Check out our
Visit Us
pages to find out more information about booking onto one of our events. And if the dates aren’t suitable for you, feel free to
book a campus tour here
.
Applying
You can apply to our full-time undergraduate courses through either the
Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS)
or the
University of Essex Direct Application Form
.
If you choose to apply through UCAS, you can find step-by-step guidance on
how to fill your UCAS undergraduate application
. UK students (as well as some EU and international students) who are still in school or college may apply through their institution. Your school will help you complete and submit your UCAS application. The option to apply through UCAS is also available to independent UK and international applicants.
The UCAS code for the University of Essex is ESSEX E70. The individual campus codes for our Loughton and Southend Campuses are ‘L' and ‘S' respectively.
In addition your UCAS or University of Essex application, you must also submit an
East 15 Application Form
.
For full details on how to apply, please visit the
Applying for an Undergraduate Course
page on the East 15 website.
Apply now
Auditioning
Applicants to this course must submit a Round 1
video audition
as part of your
East 15 Application Form
. If successful at this stage, you’ll be invited to a Round 2 audition, which may take place on our campus, online, or at a regional or international audition.
Please note that we charge a £15 audition fee for Round 1 auditions. Fee waivers are available for eligible applicants. You can find out how to pay the audition fee or check your eligibility for a waiver on the
Applying for an Undergraduate Course
page.
Our staff regularly travel to conduct auditions worldwide. So if you’re not based in the UK, it’s likely that we may hold auditions near you. These will be one-on-one auditions. You can find the locations and dates of these auditions on our
International Auditions page
.
Offers for this course are made only after successful auditions.
For details of what to prepare for our auditions, please visit our
Preparing for Auditions
page.
Visit Southend Campus
Want to live in a central city location, with state-of-the-art facilities at your finger tips? Southend is the perfect environment for living and learning in a close-knit international community.
If you're joining our School of Health and Social Care, East 15 Acting School, or Essex Business School, you may well be studying at our Southend Campus.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree virtual tours allows you to explore our University from the comfort of your home. Check out our
Colchester virtual tour
and
Southend virtual tour
to see accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
CHAT TO US
ASK OUR STUDENTS AND STAFF ANYTHING
Read all about it
Get a prospectus
Study at Essex
Find a course
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website