Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FUG00009%2F2%2FBA-Acting-and-Community-Engagement&auth=LhYU0pyyQIgYhR9wnDEY2g&profile=_default&rank=26&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Undergraduate
Courses
BA Acting and Community Engagement
Undergraduate Course
BA Acting and Community Engagement
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Course options
3 years
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Acting and Community Engagement
UCAS code:
W496
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years
Location:
Southend Campus
Based in:
East 15 Acting School
East 15 Acting School's BA Acting and Community Engagement course is a professional route into the world of community-focused theatre practice in which artists create theatre for, with, and about the communities in which they live.
In an intensely practical, professionally oriented environment, a broad range of acting, performance and community facilitation skills are developed through local projects and in partnership with leading industry organisations.
You will work extensively with communities and professionals throughout your training, making for a seamless transition to a professional career in this field.
If you believe that theatre is for all and you want to use the power of drama to influence the world, our BA Acting and Community Engagement is for you!
This course is taught at our vibrant and modern
Southend Campus
. With its lively, state-of-the-art facilities and close-knit international community, Southend is the perfect environment for living and learning.
View more undergraduate courses from
East 15 Acting School
, including further Actor training programs as well as behind the scenes courses in Creative Producing and Stage & Production Management.
Why we're great.
Intensive acting training by leading UK and international faculty.
Theatre making and creating skills.
Professional industry community placement during study.
Our expert staff
Our training is by professionals and for professionals, allowing our graduates to work successfully across the globe.
Our international, outstanding teaching faculty is made up of professionals from all areas of live and recorded performance.
Learn more about our staff
here
.
Specialist facilities
Our
Southend Campus
is based in the heart of Southend-on-Sea. A vibrant and modern British seaside town with excellent transport links.
Famous for its beach resort and pier, Southend-on-Sea stretches along seven miles of award-winning coastline. There are also over 650 acres of parks and gardens, a fun park, leisure centres, pubs, clubs, cafés and restaurants.
Southend Central railway station is opposite our Campus and the journey to central London takes less than an hour. Southend Airport, with flights to many European and UK destinations is just three miles away. We are also just one hour away from London's Stansted Airport.
Our Gateway Building houses a purpose-built suite specifically for East 15 students. This includes fully equipped, state-of-the art rehearsal studios with panoramic views across Southend-on-Sea, plus seminar rooms, computer labs and media production resources including an Apple Mac edit suite for our BA Creative Producing (Theatre & Short Film) students.
A magnificent Victorian former church in the heart of Southend's conservation area was converted into East 15's Clifftown Theatre. It also houses a variety of unique spaces for rehearsals, technical and practical work and performances. The church nave, with its original organ and stained glass windows now provides an inspirational and atmospheric environment, re-designed to accommodate the needs of a twenty-first century performance space.
In ‘The Forum' building, students have round the clock, secure access to the Learning Hub, which provides innovative IT and study spaces. The Forum also houses an integrated public and academic library, carrying books and other support materials. Students in Southend also have access to the East 15 Loughton Campus library and the University's Colchester Campus library.
Outside of learning, the Students' Union at our Southend Campus provides a dedicated space for students to meet, have a coffee, relax and watch films or sport. It runs a wide variety of entertainment throughout the term, such as international nights and open mic nights.
Your future
Graduates of the BA Acting and Community Engagement course work as actors, project leaders, directors, comedians and producers worldwide. Several companies formed by graduates are now well established, respected and funded in an increasingly competitive industry, with some employing recent graduates upon completion of their training.
“This course doesn’t only teach you to be an actor/actress but also equips you with a very handy bag of tricks ranging from circus skills to clowning to Commedia. I have worked with a huge range of people from different theatre companies and with people in the community. I’ve also learned how you can put your own company together.”
Dale Curran, BA Acting and Community Engagement
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
Applicants will need to submit a video audition and, if successful, complete a recall audition/workshop. Applicants should also have, or expect to have:
A-levels:
EE, or 32 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A-levels
BTEC:
PP, or 32 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of the equivalent of 2 full A-levels
Combined qualifications on the UCAS tariff:
32 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A levels or equivalent. Tariff point offers may be made if you are taking a qualification, or mixture of qualifications, from the list on our
undergraduate application information page.
T-levels:
Pass with E in core
IB:
two Higher Level certificates with 33
IB Career-related Programme:
We consider combinations of IB Diploma Programme courses with BTECs or other qualifications
Additional requirements
You must also have a satisfactory enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Check (including child and adult barred list check) - this is organised by the University. Please contact our
DBS team
if you have any questions relating to this.
A satisfactory Overseas Criminal Record Check/Local Police Certificate is also required, in addition to a DBS Check, where you have lived outside of the UK in the last 5 years for 6 months or more.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Undergraduate Admissions team at
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If you do not require a student visa to study in the UK then we will assess your English language proficiency/ability at your interview or audition.
English language requirements for applicants whose first language is not English:
IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in each component, or specified score in another equivalent test that we accept.
Details of English language requirements, including component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
If we accept the English component of an international qualification it will be included in the academic levels listed above for the relevant countries.
English language shelf-life
Most English language qualifications have a validity period of 5 years. The validity period of Pearson Test of English, TOEFL and CBSE or CISCE English is 2 years.
If you require a Student visa to study in the UK please see our
immigration webpages
for the latest Home Office guidance on English language qualifications.
Pre-sessional English courses
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Pending English language qualifications
You don’t need to achieve the required level before making your application, but it will be one of the conditions of your offer.
If you cannot find the qualification that you have achieved or are pending, then please email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
.
Additional Notes
If you’re an international student, but do not meet the English language or academic requirements for direct admission to this degree, you could prepare and gain entry through a pathway course. Find out more about opportunities available to you at the
University of Essex International College
Structure
Course structure
We offer dynamic and unique courses for actors, directors, producers, technical theatre specialists and students of theatre practice. Training at East 15 draws upon 50 years of tradition combined with a keen sense of the world of stage and screen today.
Our carefully selected modules will give you the chance to explore and develop your specialist training.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
Year 2
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Introduction to Acting Theory, Methods and Practice: From Self to Character
(15 CREDITS)
This core first year acting module provides an initial training in acting theory, method and practice based on the uniqueness of the individual and the ability to change, adapt, extend, perceive, accept and reject.

Students move through self-study to look outside themselves, approaching firstly improvised situations and then scripted text in imaginative and collaborative ways. By the end of the course you will know how to start work on a play and will have begun collaborative text work. You are able to begin to create a character from a text and to start the process of creating the world of the play.
View Introduction to Acting Theory, Methods and Practice: From Self to Character on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Verbatim Theatre and Contemporary Scene Study
(15 CREDITS)
For this core first year acting module students work in small groups to study scenes from a contemporary play, learning how to divide a scene into units of action, how to discover objectives for a character and use the text to discover information – about the play, its themes and characters.

You workshop scenes in your groups, practising your learning from the early part of the course. By the end of this block of work you will be able to find a character’s through line and recreate work achieved during the rehearsal process.
View Verbatim Theatre and Contemporary Scene Study                                                        on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Actor and Text
(15 CREDITS)
This first year acting module provides opportunities for students to apply the introductory learning of EA131 and EA132 to more demanding textual and acting challenges. You will continue to advance your actor training through a focused approach to the theatre of a particular period.
 
The work of this module will progress into second year when it will inform and support the devising of text.
View Actor and Text on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Improvised Living History
(15 CREDITS)
This core first year acting module provides you with opportunities to play out the life of a character under simulated rather than ‘staged’ conditions in order to understand more fully the true meaning of the character’s experience and emotional depths.
View Improvised Living History on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: CORE
Voice I
(15 CREDITS)
This core full year module is one of the programme’s four skills modules.

The work begins in Term One with an introduction to the anatomy of voice production. You will begin the work of acquiring good vocal habits through the use of basic vocal exercises. Techniques for direct communication with voice will be introduced.

In Term Two you will develop the structures used by voice. You will work on improving articulation and explore accents and the voices of others.

The work of the final term is on the vocal demands of acting, on developing clarity and power. By the end of the module you will have the ability to assess critically your own vocal capabilities and will have in place vocal exercises and a regime for future use.
View Voice I                                                                                              on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: CORE
Movement I
(15 CREDITS)
This core full year module is one of the programme’s four skills modules.

The work begins in Term One with an introduction to basic anatomy. You begin the work of developing suppleness and stamina. Techniques for the release of emotion in movement will be introduced.

In Term Two you develop balance, co-ordinations and rhythm, linking movement and dance with acting. You learn a range of styles and carriage.

The work of the final term covers preparation for physical demands and the extension of physical and dance vocabulary.
View Movement I on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: CORE
Music and Singing I
(15 CREDITS)
This core full year module is one of the programme’s four skills modules.
View Music and Singing I                                                                                  on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 08: CORE
Contextual and Community Studies
(15 CREDITS)
Actors spend their entire careers speaking other people’s words and trying to imagine how other people think. Contextual Studies is intended to help students to observe, to make rational sense of their observations and to put their own ideas into their own words as part of seminar discussion and in writing. The arts administration component introduces students to the principles of community theatre and the way companies work in the community. This module has been designed to enable students to integrate their subject knowledge with an understanding of sustainable development, acquiring the skills and competencies essential for addressing the urgent sustainability challenges of the 21st century.
View Contextual and Community Studies on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Applied Theatre Skills I: Consulting the Community
(30 CREDITS)
In this second year module for Acting and Community Theatre the students will begin to develop relationships with local organisations and to explore the different influences and contexts that form the cultural landscape of communities.
 
The module involves applying acting skills developed in the first year to performance projects devised from participants’ experiences. Students will consult with participants in their local communities. They will gain experience of working with and for a range of people from 4 years to 90 years, to develop and present community theatre performances and/or workshops.
 
Projects will draw on observation and narrative, exploring and referring to local stories, issues and identities. Performances may take place in a range of environments such as on campus, in studios, at youth centres, schools, libraries,  outdoors or online.
 
The module may be delivered on a cyclic basis so that student groups may undertake units at different times.
View Applied Theatre Skills I: Consulting the Community on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Applied Theatre Skills II: Developing the Community
(30 CREDITS)
This core second year module has a focus on community development, and you have opportunities to investigate equality of opportunity and community cultural development as you engage with communities in Southend, Loughton and the wider south east England region.

You extend your experience of creating theatre in a range of forms, styles and performance environments. You explore a variety of approaches to physical theatre, object manipulation and outdoor performance, extending your technical and acting skills to apply to the demanding environments of street theatre. The work of this module culminates in the creation of Pandemonium – a street theatre festival for the people of Southend.
View Applied Theatre Skills II: Developing the Community on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Community Theatre Arts Management
(15 CREDITS)
In this core second year module you examine a range of community theatre contexts of arts management. You explore the structure and management of small-scale community and voluntary sector arts organisations, and community and education departments within large organisations.

The module includes preparation for work placements assessed in the final year. By the end of the module you are prepared to learn and begin to apply arts administration skills in a professional company context.

Aspects of event management and production management are explored. This may include such aspects as marketing, databases, budgets, liaison with agencies, licensing, risk assessment, audience management and other aspects of health and safety, along with scheduling and logistics.

The structure and purpose of organisations involved in community theatre: community, voluntary, public and relevant departments under the umbrella of larger organisations.
View Community Theatre Arts Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Technical Theatre Skills
(15 CREDITS)
The emphasis in this module is on developing design concepts and technical expertise for mounting small-scale community theatre, and developing technical skill in video documentary. You explore case studies of design for performance in the community. You are encouraged to make use of found materials and low-budget solutions suitable for small-scale touring and work in community settings.

You gain an understanding of the technical, legal and health and safety issues of performance in a range of scales and settings. You learn to carry out established risk assessment procedures and to propose appropriate solutions to health and safety issues.
View Technical Theatre Skills on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: CORE
Special Performance Skills
(15 CREDITS)
The work of this second year Acting and Community Theatre module provides a training in voice, music movement and appropriate circus skills required for performance in community settings. Students will explore techniques of physical theatre and extended vocal work.
 
The work of this module provides students with an overview of the music appropriate to contemporary and historical contexts of their acting projects. Students will be able to apply standard body and vocal warm-ups and take active responsibility for identifying and remedying areas of personal weakness in performance. Contemporary theatre practices to extend students’ understanding of physicality, voice, movement and characterisation in relation to community theatre.
 
Students will learn how to perform percussion improvisations and to create outdoor processional performance. They will explore a range of carnival traditions and learn to make appropriate choices for their use in practical projects.
View Special Performance Skills on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: CORE
Contextual Studies
(15 CREDITS)
This is a full-year module for students on the BA Hons Acting and Community Theatre course. The module explores the role of the arts in the public realm and will introduce the wider history and context of community theatre in the UK and Europe. It will draw on the development of ideas of 'popular theatre', including theories of carnival, spectacle and community empowerment, with examples from a range of cultural contexts and practices. Students will also explore theories of representation including semiotics, drawing on visual, aural and popular culture.

You will critically analyse performances, lectures and classes you have attended, drawing on appropriatetechnical and theoretical vocabulary. You will learn to locate performance practice within a social and cultural framework.
View Contextual Studies on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Applied Theatre Skills III: Wellbeing, Social Care and Criminal Justice
(15 CREDITS)
The work of this BA Hons Acting and Community Theatre Year 3 module begins with a series of workshops to introduce students to the ethical and practical issues of working with vulnerable groups involved with the health, social services or criminal justice system. Students are encouraged to develop a working knowledge of the processes of exclusion and inclusion, and of contemporary practice of theatre arts projects with these participants.

The module further explores the role of theatre and workshop facilitation with participants who may have a disability or poor mental health, or are socially excluded, are at risk of offending or are in the criminal justice system.
View Applied Theatre Skills III: Wellbeing, Social Care and Criminal Justice on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Applied Theatre Skills IV: Site-Specific and Web-Based Historical/Political Projects
(30 CREDITS)
This module explores the research, development and performance of site-specific, issue-based and socio-political theatre. It explores citizenship, the interrelationship of performance environment, form and content, the notion of community- based media, satire and theatre for development.
 
Students will develop a performance in an identified community setting with local historical or social significance. The performance will draw on advanced technical resources in performance and production, and involve extended development and application of acting, voice, music and movement skills.
 
Students will explore theatre as propaganda, consultation and persuasion. Provocative texts designed to stimulate debate and interactive techniques designed to promote participation and enquiry may be used to illustrate this theatrical form. The role of theatre in development, regeneration and conflict resolution will be examined. Students will apply these approaches to research and development of a theatre performance.
 
Advanced techniques in recording and editing of video and audio documentary and performance will be applied to develop a project of contemporary community media. Technical skill in web design will be developed
View Applied Theatre Skills IV: Site-Specific and Web-Based Historical/Political Projects on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Arts Administration and Professional Development
(30 CREDITS)
In this module you undertake a placement for a minimum of one day per week over fifteen weeks with a local or regional arts organisation of other user/provider of applied theatre.

The work may be ‘blocked’ into a total of three weeks’ work or a combination of days and weeks by negotiation with the tutor and placement provider. Potential work placement providers include arts organisations, schools hospitals and social care or youth work settings.

You are supported in their placements by the module tutor and a designated work placement supervisor within the organisation. You undertake 15 days work placement during the summer vacation between second and final years or other non-teaching periods as negotiated with the course leader.

You critically examine the working practices of the organisations and companies with which you have a work placement. You further explore issues in current arts management, funding and arts development.

You extend your arts administration knowledge in funding sources, developing a pitch and completing an application. Production management is advanced to consider planning, prioritising of areas and time lines.

The work of this professional preparation module includes lectures with key industry bodies and personal management sessions.
View Arts Administration and Professional Development on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Contextual Studies
(15 CREDITS)
This module runs over 10 weeks, and can wither run the length of the Autumn or Summer Term, or be separated into smaller blocks of work. The student will be responsible for securing their own placement, with approval needed from the
Head of Course. The type of placement will vary according to student interest but it may fall under the following headings: Theatre Management, Company Management, Film Production, Media, Stage Management, Dramaturgy or Research Assistant, Assistant Director (film or theatre) and Arts Administration.
View Contextual Studies                                                                                   on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: CORE
Community Project
(30 CREDITS)
This is the summative project for the BA Hons Acting and Community Theatre final year. In small companies students will identify a community setting in which to develop a theatrical intervention. For example this could take the form of a community play, a participatory project, or promenade performance. The students will work with at least one group of participants to develop the project. Each company of students will work as production crew and FOH for another company.

Students will align the artistic and practical needs of the project and the community they work with. They will ensure that the performance conforms to licensing and other regulatory requirements. They will consider issues of accessibility and interpretation for audiences. Posters, programmes, and publicity for the project will be produced. Through regular company meetings they will assign roles to manage publicity, production processes and documentation of performances.

During the work of this module students will critically examine the role of the artist, management and arts administration in community theatre. They will reflect on their own artistic development and readiness for high level participation in the development of community arts provision.
View Community Project                                                                                    on our Module Directory
Teaching
Year 1
Your first year focuses on introductory acting, voice, articulation, singing and movement. You explore individual creativity, self and responsiveness to other actors, as well as developing observational skills and improvisation, applied research and learning how to engage and collaborate with a range of different community groups. In addition you will:
Create individual character study through text analysis into scene study, verbatim and Shakespeare
Learn to re-create through reflection, research and improvisation
Participate productively in shared group experience and larger community based projects
Your first year culminates in a unique ‘Living History Project', in which you study, understand and live the lives of others through a period of historical conflict.
Year 2
Your second year provides key practical and public experience. This includes working in partnership with practicing professionals to create documentary theatre based on real lives, devise and tour participatory performances, perform object theatre and understand and perform Forum theatre. You will also:
Collaborate with young people to make new dramatic works
Create and edit your own videos
Develop workshop facilitation and leadership skills
Learn clowning, puppetry and circus skills
Forge professional links in the community theatre industry by undertaking an internship with an established theatre company
Apply workshop facilitation skills in community host organisations
You will also gain a thorough understanding of developing a theatre project from conception to delivery through devising, managing and performing in the annual ‘Southend Street Theatre Festival'
Year 3
Your third year involves extensive work with communities and professionals to help you make a seamless transition into professional life. Projects include:
Facilitating theatre projects within areas such as health, social services and the justice system
Political theatre and organising a site-specific performance
An opportunity to extend your music skills in a cabaret
You will also apply production, marketing and evaluation skills to create your own, devised community play.
The year culminates with an Industry Showcase for an invited audience of influential agents, casting directors, theatre companies, and film, TV and theatre directors. East 15 continually liaises with industry professionals to ensure the format for the event accords with the changing landscape of the industry.
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£9,250 per year
Additional costs for materials and field trips of up to approximately £650 per academic year. Equipment lists are reviewed annually.
International fee
£21,525 per year
Additional costs for materials and field trips of up to approximately £650 per academic year. Equipment lists are reviewed annually.
Fees will increase for each academic year of study.
Home/UK fees and funding information
International fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
Our events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex. We run a number of Open Days throughout the year which enable you to discover what our campus has to offer. 
You have the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
Check out our
Visit Us
pages to find out more information about booking onto one of our events. And if the dates aren’t suitable for you, feel free to
book a campus tour here
.
Applying
Applications for our full-time undergraduate courses should be made through the
Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS)
. Full details on how to apply can be found on the
filling in your UCAS undergraduate application
web page.
Our UK students, and some of our EU and international students, who are still at school or college, can apply through their school. Your school will be able to check and then submit your completed application to UCAS. Our other international applicants (EU or worldwide) or independent applicants in the UK can also apply online through UCAS Apply.
The UCAS code for our University of Essex is ESSEX E70. The individual campus codes for our Loughton and Southend Campuses are ‘L' and ‘S' respectively.
You also need to complete and send us an East 15 application form, including a copy of your audition payment receipt so that we can schedule your audition.
For full details, please see the
East 15 website
.
Apply now
Auditioning
Applicants to this course will need to book an audition. If you apply to us through UCAS we will send you information on how to do this. Alternatively, you can apply to East 15 directly. If you're resident in the UK you'll visit our campus to take part in the audition, where you'll meet some of our staff and sample our teaching. Please see our website for more information about
preparing for auditions
.
Our staff travel the world auditioning applicants so if you're not resident in the UK, it's likely that we'll be in a location near you at some point. This will be a one-to-one audition. If you still can't make a physical audition, we are sometimes able to accept video auditions.
Offers for these courses will only be made after a successful audition.
For full details, please see the
East 15 website
.
Application requirements
All students on the BA Acting and Community Theatre course are required to undertake an enhanced
Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check
because you will come into contact with children and/or vulnerable adults through a work placement undertaken as part of your course. DBS checks must be completed prior to commencement of the relevant work placement or activity.
You are required to declare a criminal record at the time of applying for the course and/or prior to completing a DBS check application. A student with a DBS disclosure certificate containing details of a criminal record will be referred to the University's DBS Review Panel who will determine whether or not the student can be admitted to the course or permitted to continue on the course.
Visit Southend Campus
Want to live in a central city location, with state-of-the-art facilities at your finger tips? Southend is the perfect environment for living and learning in a close-knit international community.
If you're joining our School of Health and Social Care, East 15 Acting School, or Essex Business School, you may well be studying at our Southend Campus.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree virtual tours allows you to explore our University from the comfort of your home. Check out our
Colchester virtual tour
and
Southend virtual tour
to see accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
CHAT TO US
ASK OUR STUDENTS AND STAFF ANYTHING
Read all about it
Get a prospectus
Study at Essex
Find a course
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website