Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FUG01121%2F2%2FBA-Childhood-Studies&auth=IJHwAuYfrcJYssN8Wz7EYg&profile=_default&rank=184&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Undergraduate
Courses
BA Childhood Studies
Undergraduate Course
BA Childhood Studies
(Including Foundation Year)
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Course options
3 years + Foundation Year
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Childhood Studies (Including Foundation Year)
UCAS code:
L523
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
4 years
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Essex Pathways
Our BA Childhood Studies (including Foundation Year) could be suitable for you if your academic qualifications do not yet meet our entry requirements for a three-year version of our social sciences courses and you want a programme that improves your skills to support your academic performance.
Open to UK and EU applicants, this four-year course includes a Foundation Year (known as Year Zero) which is delivered by our
Essex Pathways Department
followed by a further three years of study in our
Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies
During Year Zero you will study on our
Social Sciences Pathway
which will cover topics such as Analysing the Social and Political World, and People and Society. At the end of Year Zero all students who pass the Social Sciences Pathway will have a choice of which course to progress with. As well as BA Childhood Studies students on the Social Sciences Pathway could also study BA Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies or BA Sociology, amongst other courses.
The BA in Childhood Studies at Essex is an interdisciplinary degree where we explore the social and emotional worlds of children from birth to 25. It is a wonderful introduction for students wishing to deepen their knowledge about children's live and forge a career in children's education, health and well-being.
Are you fascinated by children's behaviour? What drives their development, what informs their behaviour and shapes their identity? Do you want to help children with emotional, social, behavioural and education difficulties? Why do some children falter through life's ups and downs, whilst others seem to thrive in adversity and are more resilient? Do you want to make a difference to children's lives? If so, this course is for you.
Children today face a wide range of new and challenging experiences, including unprecedented access to media, wider cultural diversity, online bullying and larger school numbers. Their early experiences of childhood affect them for the rest of their lives. You can make a positive contribution to these formative years.
Childhood studies is a vibrant and exciting field which has expanded in recent years to include knowledge from psychology, sociology and psychoanalysis. This course lays the foundations for a career working with infants and children, whether in education, health care or children's services. It can also lead to further study in a range of courses from social work or teaching to speech and language therapy.
You gain a solid understanding of child development, the ecology of childhood (the place of children in different societies) and consider the way our concepts of childhood shape and condition children's lives.  You will also learn about the direct work with children through undertaking a placement in each year of study where you can begin to make links between theory and practice; in year one this placement can be with children of any age, in year two this is focussed on infant observation.  Assessment is mainly by course work.
Topics include:
Psychosocial approaches
Child development
Attachment theory
ADHD, developmental trauma and Autism
Criminological approaches
Play and infant observation
The social history of childhood
Children in literature
Therapeutic work in groups
Wellbeing and resilience
Psychodynamics of teaching, learning
Therapeutic work groups
Our
Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies
is internationally recognised as one of the leading departments for work on the role of the unconscious mind in mental health, as well as in culture and society more generally.
Why we're great.
You'll be taught by lecturers who bring both academic and practical knowledge from years of working with children.
Our degree will lay the foundations for a career working with infants and children, whether in education, health care or children's services.
The opportunity to complete two placements within a childcare setting, with support from our staff.
Our expert staff
Our Essex Pathways Department is a gateway to the University of Essex, helping students without standard entry requirements to grow in confidence, unlock their potential, and nurture their ambitions so they can progress in academic study.
Our staff blend clinical and professional experience and expertise in their field with the academic rigour that our Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies is known for. You're taught by lecturers who have years of experience working directly with troubled individuals and groups in specialist settings. This means they are seasoned researchers in the field of childhood and psychoanalytic studies, but also draw upon years of clinical experience as teachers, psychotherapists, and therapeutic community practitioners.
Our staff
specialise in areas ranging from creative therapies for children and adolescents, to organisational dynamics, to the practice of psychotherapy, to psychodynamic counselling with children and adolescents.
Specialist facilities
During Year Zero, you will have access to all of the facilities that the University of Essex has to offer, as well as those provided by our Essex Pathways Department to support you, such as:
We provide computer labs for internet research; classrooms with access to PowerPoint facilities for student presentations; AV facilities for teaching and access to web-based learning materials
Our new Student Services Hub will support you and provide information for all your needs as a student
Our social space is stocked with magazines and newspaper, and provides an informal setting to meet your lecturers, tutors and friends
Within the Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies you will experience a lively, informal environment with a number of specialist facilities:
At our Colchester Campus, you  have access to The Albert Sloman Library which houses a collection of books, journals, electronic resources and major archives
Our Department has its own dedicated library of specialist texts which inform and influence our research
Attend free evening Open Seminars on topics relevant to childhood studies, education, mental health and  psychosocial studies which are open to students, staff and members of the public.
Your future
Whether you want to work with infants in the nursery, children with emotional and behavioural difficulties in children's homes, support those with learning difficulties, or go on into teaching, our course prepares you to make a difference to children's lives.
Put theory into practice by carrying out reflective practice through infant observation, and a work placement. These give you invaluable experience within your chosen sector.
We help you to explore and understand the kind of role you're preparing for so you graduate with a valuable balance of theoretical understanding and useful practical experience – rare qualities giving you the edge needed to successfully gain employment upon graduation.
There are a range of jobs directly related to this degree including early years teachers, family support workers, learning support workers, primary and secondary teacher, special needs teachers and social workers.
After taking this degree you can also enter further study or training to become a:
Child psychotherapist
Children's nurse
Community development worker
Counsellor
Arts Therapist
Educational psychologist
Speech and language therapist
We also work with the University's
Student Development Team
to help you find out about further work experience, internships, placements, and voluntary opportunities.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
UK and EU applicants:
All applications for degree courses with a foundation year (Year Zero) will be considered individually, whether you
think you might not have the grades to enter the first year of a degree course;
have non-traditional qualifications or experience (e.g. you haven’t studied A-levels or a BTEC);
are returning to university after some time away from education; or
are looking for more support during the transition into university study.
Standard offer:
Our standard offer is 72 UCAS tariff points from at least two full A-levels, or equivalent.
Examples of the above tariff may include:
A-levels: DDD
BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma: MMP
T-levels: Pass with E in core
If you are unsure whether you meet the entry criteria, please
get in touch
for advice.
Mature applicants and non-traditional academic backgrounds:
We welcome applications from mature students (over 21) and students with non-traditional academic backgrounds (might not have gone on from school to take level 3 qualifications).  We will consider your educational and employment history, along with your personal statement and reference, to gain a rounded view of your suitability for the course.
Additional requirements:
A satisfactory enhanced DBS check (including child and adult barred list check) will be required prior to starting any placement(s) for this course, which will commence in Year 1. This will be organised by the University.
A satisfactory Overseas Criminal Record/Local Police Certificate is also required, in addition to a DBS Check, where you lived outside of the UK in the last 5 years for 6 months or more.
International applicants:
Essex Pathways Department is unable to accept applications from international students. Foundation pathways for international students are available at the
University of Essex International College
and are delivered and awarded by Kaplan, in partnership with the University of Essex. Successful completion will enable you to progress to the relevant degree course at the University of Essex.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Undergraduate Admissions team at
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
English language requirements for applicants whose first language is not English:
IELTS 5.5 overall, or specified score in another equivalent test that we accept.
Details of English language requirements, including UK Visas and Immigration minimum component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
If we accept the English component of an international qualification then it will be included in the information given about the academic levels listed above for the relevant countries.
Please note that date restrictions may apply to some English language qualifications.
If you are an international student requiring a Student visa to study in the UK please see our
immigration webpages
for the latest Home Office guidance on English language qualifications.
What if my IELTS does not meet your requirements?
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Do I need to have achieved an acceptable English language qualification before I apply?
You don’t need to achieve the required level before making your application, but it will be one of the conditions of your offer.
What if the English language qualification I hold, or am taking, is not listed?
If you cannot find the qualification that you have achieved or are pending, then please contact Admissions on
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
for advice.
Additional Notes
Our Year 0 courses are only open to UK and EU applicants. If you’re an international student, but do not meet the English language or academic requirements for direct admission to your chosen degree, you could prepare and gain entry through a pathway course. Find out more about opportunities available to you at the
University of Essex International College
.
Structure
Course structure
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The following modules are based on the current course structure and may change in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 0
Year 1
Year 2
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Analysing the Social and Political World
(30 CREDITS)
This module is designed to equip you with practical and analytical skills to understand, generate, analyse, interpret and present data, to draw valid conclusions from data and to critically assess examples of data use. Although these skills are applicable across disciplines, they will be taught in the context of social sciences using examples of political and social data from a range of sources including academic articles, newspaper reports, data archives, and Government statistics.
View Analysing the Social and Political World on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Research and Academic Development Skills
(30 CREDITS)
This module is designed to support students in their academic subject disciplines and to strengthen their confidence in key skills areas such as: academic writing, research, academic integrity, collaborative and reflective practices.

The students are supported through the use of subject-specific materials tailored to their chosen degrees with alignment of assessments between academic subject modules and the skills module.
View Research and Academic Development Skills on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Understanding People and Society
(30 CREDITS)
The module aims to establish a theoretical foundation for students pursuing degrees in Social Science through the introduction of some key theories and concepts associated with the fields of Sociology, Criminology and Psychoanalysis and Psychosocial studies. The relevance of these theories will be demonstrated through opportunities to consider their role in specific contemporary social issues. As such the Autumn Term focuses on criminological theory and its application to contemporary society whilst also encouraging the development of a Sociological Imagination through debating current social issues based on the work of key social theorists. In Spring term building upon the learning in Autumn Term, students will use the lens of psychoanalysis to explore how people interact within society. They will consider the way individuals affect one another and how  institutions affect the people who work in them and vice versa. Throughout the module, expert guest speakers are periodically invited to contribute to lectures and seminars.
View Understanding People and Society on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Knowing your World from Language to Politics
(30 CREDITS)
This module is designed to prepare students wishing to join a degree course in the Faculty of Social Sciences and provides a sound academic background for how areas of language, society and politics are intertwined and how they influence the way we interact and shape the world around us.


This module will give you the opportunity to investigate and respond to a complex question or challenge a problem through a small-scale collaborative team project. You will prepare a set of research questions and design and plan a project and showcase your findings and impact to a wider audience.
View Knowing your World from Language to Politics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Introduction to Childhood Studies
(30 CREDITS)
In this module you will explore childhood from a local and a global perspective. You will discover a broad range of topics related to children and childhood, including psychology, sociology, history, media, law and education.
View Introduction to Childhood Studies on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Perspectives in Child Development
(30 CREDITS)
Expand on your knowledge of perspectives and theoretical approaches relating to child development. This module focuses on developmental psychology and includes psychoanalytic and psycho-dynamic theories.
View Perspectives in Child Development on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Placement Based Observation Skills and Reflective Practice
(30 CREDITS)
For this module you will learn observation skills and reflective practice skills to enhance your working experience and your professional practice. You will also undertake a placement where you have the opportunity to gain hands on experience. This placement will be within the children’s sector, for example a nursery, a school or a children’s centre. You will have support from your lecturer in gaining the placement and whilst you are on the placement.
View Placement Based Observation Skills and Reflective Practice on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Assignment and Research Writing for Psychoanalytic Studies
(15 CREDITS)
Want guidance in understanding your course? Know how your academic skills will transfer to the world of work? Develop your abilities to undertake independent research. Learn to read critically and to write clearly. Build the employability skills that will help you during your studies and after graduation.
View Assignment and Research Writing for Psychoanalytic Studies on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Understanding Individuals Groups and Organisations : An Introduction to Psychodynamic Concepts
(15 CREDITS)
How do unconscious dynamics work in individuals, groups and organisations? How can psychodynamic insight be applied to this? Explore how individuals affect one another, how institutions affect those who work there and vice versa. Understand key concepts in psychodynamic thinking and how to apply this to individuals, groups and workplaces.
View Understanding Individuals Groups and Organisations : An Introduction to Psychodynamic Concepts on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Infant Observation
(30 CREDITS)
In this module you will learn about child development, focusing on infancy. You will have the opportunity to gain first-hand experience in observing the early developments of an infant, within a family setting or in the nursery setting. You will learn the unfolding of the infant’s awareness of self and others and the developing of personality and identity within the context in which it is happening.  

You will also be learning about the role of the observer. Understanding and developing how this role supports the development of skills and sensitivity around role management and boundaries in preparation for professional life – where working therapeutically or with ordinary children or other settings.
View Infant Observation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
The Social History of Childhood
(15 CREDITS)
Consider the ways in which childhood has changed throughout history. In this module you will explore how the concept of childhood has developed particularly from eighteenth century onwards. This module covers a variety of aspects including religion, education, rights and policies, culture, gender and sexuality.
View The Social History of Childhood on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Safeguarding and Ethical Practice
(15 CREDITS)
Discover the broad range of policies, ethics and professional conduct in the workplace with regards to children. You will develop an understanding of both the practice related and theoretical aspects and learn how to apply this to the workplace, your discipline and the children you are working with.
View Safeguarding and Ethical Practice on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Professional Practice in Careers with Children
(15 CREDITS)
In this module you will develop your understanding of childhood studies and childcare practice and explore employability and career options within this field. You will have the opportunity to think about your future career aspirations and learn about the graduate employment market.
View Professional Practice in Careers with Children on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Psychoanalysis and the Child
(15 CREDITS)
In this module we examine some of the developments in psychoanalytic theory with a special focus on the figure of the child. We consider some of the debates surrounding the development of psychoanalysis of children through the work of Melanie Klein, D. W. Winnicott, Anna Freud, amongst others. We pay attention to the importance of play and practices of observation to understand how and why the figure of the child has been central to the development of psychoanalytic thought.
View Psychoanalysis and the Child on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: OPTIONAL
Autumn Term Option from list
(15 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 07: OPTIONAL
Spring Term Option from list
(15 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Childhood Wellbeing: Play, Socialisation and Resilience
(15 CREDITS)
Explore children’s well-being through play, socialisation and resilience. Discover how well-being can vary across cultures, both nationally and globally. In this module you will also learn about current issues facing children today such as technology, internet and the effects that this may have on well-being.
View Childhood Wellbeing: Play, Socialisation and Resilience on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Teaching and Learning with Children: A Psychosocial Approach
(15 CREDITS)
Understand what facilitates education and the factors that can also hinder learning. You will explore all areas that can affect a child’s ability to learn, from anxiety to new experiences. You will learn the aspects of learning through a sociological and psycho-social perspective.
View Teaching and Learning with Children: A Psychosocial Approach on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Dissertation
(30 CREDITS)
Throughout the year students will be pursuing a research project based on a subject of their choice.

There will be an introductory workshop to help with choosing the project, followed by a series of lectures and workshops and three 30-minute supervision meetings with a named member of staff to monitor progress and offer support.

Students will draw on the theory from the three years of the course and apply these to a subject of their choice, exploring the conscious and unconscious dynamics involved.
View Dissertation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Childhood Inc.: Disney and the Globalization of Childhood
(15 CREDITS)
How does diversity impact children? How is childhood constructed differently based on differences in race, gender, class, sexuality, nationality, religion, or disability? How do children themselves navigate the larger inequalities of society and eventually internalize an understanding of their own diverse identities? 
This module emphasizes the importance of diversity and identity for understanding childhood and offers a critical introduction to some of the main identity categories that impact children's everyday lives. Taking a topical, week-by-week approach, this module considers, for instance, how children navigate racial identities in a landscape of social inequality and how gender differently affects children's development of relational qualities like confidence and caring.
View Childhood Inc.: Disney and the Globalization of Childhood on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: OPTIONAL
Option(s) from list
(45 CREDITS)
Teaching
From year 1, undergraduate students in the Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies typically attend a one-hour lecture and a one-hour seminar for each module per week. There  are some variations in place depending on the module.
Teaching takes place through lectures and seminars often in relatively small groups, with a focus on group interaction and discussion
Discussion in seminars includes discussing theoretical ideas, how these might apply to practice and discussing your own experiences and observation on placement
You will also participate in skills based workshops, debates, observation seminars, reflective groups and teach others through presentation of theoretical readings and practice case examples
Assessment
Your grade is made up mainly of coursework marks, including essays, case studies and reflective reports. There are exams, but these are infrequent
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£5,760 per year
This fee is set by the UK Government for classroom-based Foundation Years only. Your fee will increase in your next year in alignment with the
Undergraduate course fee set by the UK Government
.
International fee
£20,475 per year
The
standard undergraduate degree fee for international students
will apply in subsequent years.
Fees will increase for each academic year of study.
Home/UK fees and funding information
International fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
Our events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex. We run a number of Open Days throughout the year which enable you to discover what our campus has to offer. 
You have the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
Check out our
Visit Us
pages to find out more information about booking onto one of our events. And if the dates aren’t suitable for you, feel free to
book a campus tour here
.
Applying
Applications for our full-time undergraduate courses should be made through the
Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS)
. Full details on how to apply can be found on the
filling in your UCAS undergraduate application
web page.
Our UK students, and some of our EU and international students, who are still at school or college, can apply through their school. Your school will be able to check and then submit your completed application to UCAS. Our other international applicants (EU or worldwide) or independent applicants in the UK can also apply online through UCAS Apply.
The UCAS code for our University of Essex is
ESSEX E70
. The individual campus codes for our Loughton and Southend Campuses are 'L' and 'S' respectively.
You can find further information on how to apply, including information on transferring from another university, applying if you are not currently at a school or college, and applying for readmission on our
How to apply and entry requirements
page.
Offer Holder Days
If you receive an undergraduate offer to study with us in October 2024 and live in the UK, you will receive an email invitation to book onto one of our Offer Holder Days. Our Colchester Campus Offer Holder Days run from February to May 2024 on various Wednesdays and Saturdays, and our Southend Campus events run in April and May. These events provide the opportunity to meet your department, tour our campus and accommodation, and chat to current students. To support your attendance, we are offering a travel bursary, allowing you to claim up to £150 as reimbursement for travel expenses. For further information about Offer Holder Days, including terms and conditions and eligibility criteria for our travel bursary, please visit our
webpage.
If you are an overseas offer-holder, you will be invited to attend one of our virtual events. However, you are more than welcome to join us at one of our in-person Offer Holder Days if you are able to - we will let you know in your invite email how you can do this.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree virtual tours allows you to explore our University from the comfort of your home. Check out our
Colchester virtual tour
and
Southend virtual tour
to see accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Related courses
BA Childhood Studies
Study mode:
Full-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
Course options:
Year Abroad
Placement Year
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Life at Essex
What it's like to live at Essex
Accommodation
Find your new home
Open Days
Come see for yourself
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website