Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FUG00206%2F2%2FBA-Hotel-Management&auth=ATOoX089VpWT1qfjfWI5tg&profile=_default&rank=368&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Undergraduate
Courses
BA Hotel Management
Undergraduate Course
BA Hotel Management
Start date
January 2025
January 2026
Study mode
Full Time
Course options
9 months
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Hotel Management
UCAS code:
NV62
Start date:
January 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
9 months
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Edge Hotel School
The BA (Hons) Hotel Management Top Up offers a progression route for applicants who wish to complete their BA (Hons) degree after completing an appropriate Level 5 qualification (such as HND, Advanced Diploma or Foundation degree). The Top Up is the last eight months of the accelerated BA (Hons) Hotel Management degree and encompasses the theory and practical experience you will need for a successful career in the hospitality industry.
For accurate and up to date information regarding this course, structure and fee information, please email us at
ehs@essex.ac.uk
.
The course combines hotel experience in
Wivenhoe House
, a 4* country house hotel on Essex's Colchester campus, with industry-relevant business management lectures to prepare you to become a successful manager.
With a student experience unlike any other, it may come as no surprise that the Edge Hotel School is ranked in the top 10 in the UK for overall positivity in our subject area (National Student Survey 2023, English Broad Discipline Institutions).
The top up degree will enable candidates to update their vocational skills, competences and knowledge of the industry. They will have the opportunity to develop and unlock their professional capabilities. The course has a high profile with members of the industry and is heavily industry engaged .
The
Edge Hotel School
experience is unlike any other student experience, where you will get the best of both worlds.  Not only will you graduate from a well-renowned university - you will refine your industry knowledge and professional skills by gaining valuable experience in a fully-commercial 4* hotel alongside your studies.
Professional accreditation
Accredited by the Institute of Hospitality that academic, vocational and professional standards achieved are appropriate and programme content and delivery meet international Institute of Hospitality benchmark standards.
Why we're great.
The first hotel school of its kind in the UK offering experience in a fully-commercial 4* hotel.
Academic teaching that reflects the movements and innovation of the hospitality sector.
Outstanding preparation for employment through innovative combination of professional experience and academic learning
Our expert staff
Our staff includes lecturers with both professional as well as academic backgrounds to ensure you are taught by people with industry-relevant experience themselves.  Among our academic staff are published authors including a former hotel General Manager,  a Food and Beverage Manager for award-winning cruise lines, an organiser of the BRIT Awards and London Fashion Week and a Dr. (PhD) with international research experience.
Specialist facilities
In Wivenhoe House you can gain experience in a 40-bedroom country house hotel on the university campus with a brasserie restaurant and a busy conference and events function that hosts over 300 events and 50 weddings annually. If for any reason the hotel is subject to closures during rotations, we have developed a comprehensive platform of online skills and experience workshops to replicate the practical experience offer as closely as possible.
The Edge Hotel School has connections with a range of organisations across the hospitality and events industries – throughout your studies you can expect guest lectures, masterclasses and an annual careers fair to help further your career prospects.  Supporters of the Edge Hotel School include:
BaxterStorey
Dorchester Collection
Edge Foundation
Exclusive Hotels and Venues
Master Innholders
Milsoms Hotels and Restaurants
Royal Lancaster London
and many others.
The
Edge Hotel Society
hosts student-organised events including industry speakers, student social events and an annual ball.
As an Edge Hotel School student you will be issued with a uniform to wear for your shifts in Wivenhoe House and when representing the School externally. You will need to provide your own white shirts and black shoes.
Your future
The skills you will gain throughout your (BA) Hotel Management Top Up will be transferable to a range of working environments within the hospitality industry including hotels, restaurants, resorts and event management. There are opportunities throughout the course to meet hotel general managers and recruitment managers to further your professional network.
Graduates of the Hotel Management programme have gone onto careers in:
Hotel management
Food and beverage management
Housekeeping
Guest experience
Interior design
Marketing and sales
Restaurant management
Events management
Airlines and airport operations
"With over 35 years’ experience in the hospitality industry, successfully developing young individuals had been a constant throughout my career. It was with this scope in mind that I began my academic journey here at the Edge Hotel School with the BA Hotel Management Top Up degree that has led to my becoming a lecturer and PhD researcher here at the University of Essex."
Dimitri Lera, BA Hotel Management Top Up graduate and current Edge Hotel School lecturer.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
GCSE:
Mathematics and English C/4, or equivalent. We can consider OFQUAL regulated Level 2 Functional Skills in Numeracy as equivalent to GCSE Maths C/4. We are able to consider a range of equivalent English language qualifications, including OFQUAL regulated level 2 Functional Skills, Key Skills level 2, literacy units taken as part of the Access to HE Diploma, or a demonstration of the use of English through essay-based subjects at either GCSE or A-level equivalent.  Advice on acceptability can be provided, please contact
Undergraduate Admissions
for more information.
Applicants for the Top Up should hold a Level 5 qualification in a relevant subject area (e.g. business, hospitality, tourism or events)
Additional requirements
All applicants must be aged 18 or over by 31 October 2024 for October 2024 entry.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Undergraduate Admissions team at
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
English language requirements for applicants whose first language is not English:
IELTS 6.5 overall, or specified score in another equivalent test that we accept.
Details of English language requirements, including UK Visas and Immigration minimum component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
If we accept the English component of an international qualification then it will be included in the information given about the academic levels listed above for the relevant countries.
Please note that date restrictions may apply to some English language qualifications.
If you are an international student requiring a Student visa to study in the UK please see our
immigration webpages
for the latest Home Office guidance on English language qualifications.
What if my IELTS does not meet your requirements?
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Do I need to have achieved an acceptable English language qualification before I apply?
You don’t need to achieve the required level before making your application, but it will be one of the conditions of your offer.
What if the English language qualification I hold, or am taking, is not listed?
If you cannot find the qualification that you have achieved or are pending, then please contact Admissions on
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
for advice.
What are the requirements for second and final year entry?
Different requirements apply for second and final year entry, and specified component grades are also required for applicants who require a visa to study in the UK. Details of English language requirements, including UK Visas and Immigration minimum component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
Structure
Course structure
Below is just a example of some of the modules from the current academic year. Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The course content is therefore reviewed on an annual basis to ensure our courses remain up-to-date so modules listed are subject to change.
Level 6 (8 months) Top Up modules
Industry Context 3
This module will enable you to think in more strategic terms. You will learn how organisations can evaluate their current operational and financial situation and the external environment that impact their businesses and how, in an incredibly turbulent environment, they can build resilience, innovation and flexibility into their future operations.
Hotel Operations 3
This module will enable you to propose significant change throughout a business and to evaluate the potential impact on its finances. You will reflect on options for organisational strategic direction as well as working on a case study to put your recommendations in to practice.
The Customer Experience 3
This module tests your ability to create a marketing plan for a business of your choice. It will require innovation and creativity to generate an idea for a viable, pragmatic hospitality or event business and to write a professional marketing plan, designed to attract future investors.
Human Resources
This module will enable you to understand the fundamentals of Human Resource Management within a business. The module covers legislation, recruitment, talent management and managing performance. You will write a Human Resource policy document to support your business or business idea.
Research Project (Dissertation)
This module is an opportunity to research a topic of your own choosing. With the support of your own individual tutor, you will produce a significant piece of research that may involve working with relevant individuals or organisations from industry, professional and personal networks and others.
Consultancy Project
This module is your chance to work with and develop relationships with an industry client. With the support of an academic supervisor, you will test your business acumen and creativity on a project that could be of direct commercial benefit to the sponsors company. Topics can range from improving a businesses Human Resources, Marketing or Operational strategy to the development of environmental policies or organisational re-branding. It will involve both writing a professional consultancy report as well as presenting to the sponsoring industry client.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website. However, if we need to make material changes, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Business Strategy for the Hospitality and Events Industries
(15 CREDITS)
You will analyse the strategic implications of managing within dynamic industry environments and evaluate the necessary theories, tools and skills needed to develop realistic, coherent and effective strategy for hospitality and events organisations.

You will engage in critical analysis of different strategic options developing a critical understanding of vision and mission statements, and the nature of strategic change. You will provide a critical analysis of change management strategies, and overcoming barriers and resistance to strategic change.
View Business Strategy for the Hospitality and Events Industries on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Management in International Hospitality
(15 CREDITS)
In this module, you will investigate how hospitality businesses operate globally in terms of the markets they work within as well as domestic legislation and the impact of culture on employees.

You will also study the intricacies of global customer culture and its impact on expectations and behaviour and how hospitality firms try to adapt and personalise their offer.
View Management in International Hospitality on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Innovation and Entrepreneurship
(15 CREDITS)
The aim of this module is to develop your awareness of entrepreneurship and innovation so that you have an awareness of the knowledge and skills needed to start a business in the hospitality and event industry.

You will be expected to create an innovative business plan considering all relevant constraints and describe actions to comply with these. The plan will be expected to show how the business will be sustained and contingencies if targets are not met and options for expansion. This must be justified using valid and reliable research.
View Innovation and Entrepreneurship on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Human Resource Management
(15 CREDITS)
During this module you will evaluate the concept of strategic Human Resource Management and critically analyse retention, engagement and performance management within hospitality operations.
View Human Resource Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Dissertation
(30 CREDITS)
For your 8,000 word dissertation, you will manage a piece of individual research in the context of the commercial hospitality industry. You will be expected to demonstrate expertise with a range of business data, research resources and methodologies, as well as personal communication skills.
View Dissertation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Consultancy Project
(30 CREDITS)
The Consultancy Project consists of an individual report, a group presentation and a group report focusing on a project in the hospitality industry.  Working with fellow students you will work with an external hospitality client to resolve an issue that they are facing using research, data and analysis.
View Consultancy Project on our Module Directory
Teaching
The Top Up will last  8-months, as it is comprised of the final level of the full BA Hotel Management course.
In the Level 6, you will have up to 18 weeks of teaching, 3 weeks gaining experience in the hotel and 5 weeks self-study, in addition to your holidays.
During a teaching week you would spend around 10 hours per week in lectures, or smaller seminars. This may fluctuate at times during the course.
Your hotel experience on this programme will consist of 13 shifts split over 3 weeks - Restaurant and Night Porter, Events and Housekeeping, and Duty Manager - all for one week.
Our Top Up, like our accelerated degrees, does not follow the standard termly timetable, and students are expected to continue their academic and hotel work over the Summer, Easter and Christmas periods.  Further information for the course is available on the by contacting our professional services team at
ehs@essex.ac.uk
.
Assessment
Your Hotel Management degree has been designed to provide a mix of assessment approaches, including:
Essays
Exams
Posters
Presentations
Reflective statements
Reports
The Professional Performance Assessment (PPA) which takes the form of an interview is used throughout our courses to allow you to reflect, practise and improve your interview skills before embarking on interviews for your first graduate role.
The Professional Code of Conduct is an important part of your assessment.  It focuses on areas that are important for future managers such as attendance, punctuality and team working.  The Professional Code of Conduct is available in your
Student Handbook.
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£9,250
International fee
£19,500
Home/UK fees and funding information
International fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
Our events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex. We run a number of Open Days throughout the year which enable you to discover what our campus has to offer. 
You have the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
Check out our
Visit Us
pages to find out more information about booking onto one of our events. And if the dates aren’t suitable for you, feel free to
book a campus tour here
.
Applying
Applications for our full-time undergraduate top-up courses should be made through the
University of Essex Direct Application form
.
You can find further information on how to apply, including information on transferring from another university, applying if you are not currently at a school or college, and applying for readmission on our
How to apply and entry requirements
page.
Offer Holder Days
If you are an undergraduate student residing in the UK who has received an offer to study with us in January 2025, you will receive an email invitation soon to book onto one of our Offer Holder Days. Our Colchester Campus Offer Holder Days run from February to May 2024 on various Wednesdays and Saturdays, and our Southend Campus Offer Holder Days run in April and May 2024 on various Wednesdays and Saturdays. Offer Holder Days provide the opportunity to meet your department, tour our campus and accommodation, and chat to current students. We appreciate that travelling to university events can be expensive, so we are offering an Offer Holder Day Travel Bursary, allowing you to claim up to £150 as reimbursement for travel expenses. For further information about Offer Holder Days, including terms and conditions and eligibility criteria for our Travel Bursary, please visit our
Offer Holder Days
webpage.
If you are an overseas offer-holder, you will be invited to attend one of our virtual events. However, you are more than welcome to join us at one of our in-person Offer Holder Days if you are able to - we will let you know in your invite email how you can do this.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree virtual tours allows you to explore our University from the comfort of your home. Check out our
Colchester virtual tour
and
Southend virtual tour
to see accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Life at Essex
What it's like to live at Essex
Accommodation
Find your new home
Open Days
Come see for yourself
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website