Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FUG00295%2F2%2FBA-Modern-Languages-and-English-Language&auth=t84oOeI6s7WociSgwF3JOQ&profile=_default&rank=340&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Undergraduate
Courses
BA Modern Languages and English Language
Undergraduate Course
BA Modern Languages and English Language
(5 Years Including Foundation Year)
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Course options
4 years + Foundation Year
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Modern Languages and English Language (5 Years Including Foundation Year)
UCAS code:
RQ99
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
5 years
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Essex Pathways
Our BA Modern Languages and English Language (including foundation year) is open to Home and EU students. It will be suitable for you if your academic qualifications do not yet meet our entrance requirements for the three-year version of this course and you want a programme that increases your subject knowledge as well as improves your academic skills.
This five-year course includes a foundation year (Year Zero), followed by a further four years of study. During your Year Zero, you study four academic subjects relevant to your chosen course as well as a compulsory academic skills module.
You are an Essex student from day one, a member of our global community based at the most internationally diverse campus university in the UK.
After successful completion of Year Zero in our
Essex Pathways Department
, you progress to complete your course with the
Department of Language and Linguistics
. Unlike other English Language courses in the UK, our focus is not on the history of language, but on the contemporary use of English – on the way that  we use language, and the ways in which language is changing. You come to understand the nature of a human social life through your study of language, exploring topics including:
The use of English in in formal and formal settings
The relationship between language and society
The structure of the English Language
The acquisition of English
You also study up to two of the languages offered at Essex: French, German, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese and Mandarin Chinese, completing at least one language to Mastery level. Each of these languages is widely used in the business world, and can take you to a level of near-fluency, and so many of our graduates go on to develop successful global careers with international firms looking for language specialists.
We are 1st in UK for research impact in modern languages and linguistics (Grade Point Average, Research Excellence Framework 2021). We are also ranked 11th in the UK for Linguistics in the QS World University Rankings by Subject (2023).
If you want a global outlook, are interested in human communication, and want to study for a degree with real-world practical value in a world-class department, welcome to Essex.
Why we're great.
Great flexibility and choice: You can study up to three languages choosing between French, German, Italian and Spanish from beginner or post-A level standard. Mandarin Chinese is available at beginner's level.
We are 1st for research impact in modern languages and linguistics (Grade Point Average, Research Excellence Framework 2021)
Our study abroad opportunities include studying at a partner university, an overseas work placement or undertaking a British Council Language Assistantship
Study abroad
Our course offers two possibilities for your year abroad. The first allows you to study at one of the prestigious universities with which we have
exchange links
. You continue to study modules relevant to your course, learning your chosen languages within a country that speaks them.
The second option allows you to work as a language assistant, thereby acquiring valuable professional experience in an international context in addition to earning money.
Whichever option you choose, your year abroad allows you to experience other cultures and languages, to broaden your degree socially and academically, and to demonstrate to employers that you are mature, adaptable, and organised.
If you spend a full year abroad you'll only pay 15% of your usual tuition fee to Essex for that year. You won't pay any tuition fees to your host university
Placement year
You can also undertake a placement year abroad in which you will gain real world experience of living and working in another country, fully immersed in its language and culture. You will be responsible for finding your placement, but with support and guidance provided by both your department and our Employability and Careers Centre.
Our expert staff
We have some of the best teachers across the University in our Essex Pathways Department, all of whom have strong subject backgrounds and are highly skilled in their areas.
Our staff
are internationally recognised for their language research, 100% of our research impact in modern languages and linguistics is world-leading (Research Excellence Framework 2021). Their books dominate the reading lists at other universities. We maintain excellent student-staff ratios, and we integrate language learning with linguistics wherever there is synergy.
In addition to helping you acquire practical foreign language skills, our staff share their expertise with you in the areas of theoretical linguistics, sociolinguistics, applied linguistics, and psycholinguistics.
Specialist facilities
By studying within our Essex Pathways Department for your foundation year, you will have access to all of the facilities that the University of Essex has to offer, as well as those provided by our department to support you:
We provide computer labs for internet research; classrooms with access to PowerPoint facilities for student presentations; AV facilities for teaching and access to web-based learning materials
Our new Student Services Hub will support you and provide information for all your needs as a student
Our social space is stocked with hot magazines and newspapers, and provides an informal setting to meet with your lecturers, tutors and friends
In our Department of Language and Linguistics you also have access to:
Our
Languages for All
programme offers you the opportunity to study an additional language alongside your course at no extra cost
Our ‘Visual World' Experimental Lab records response times and eye movements when individuals are presented with pictures and videos
Our Eye-Tracking Lab monitors eye movement of individuals performing tasks
Our Psycholinguistics Lab measures how long it takes individuals to react to words, texts and sounds
Our Linguistics Lab has specialist equipment to analyse sound
A new 20-position
Interpreting Lab
Extra-curricular activities are available through student societies
Your future
Companies and organisations in the UK and abroad are struggling to find university graduates who are fluent in at least one other language, apart from English.
Being an Essex modern languages graduate places you in a very advantageous position. You will be able to speak and write fluently, or to a very competent standard, in up to four languages. Language skills are in scarce supply and can be used in almost any job.
Our graduates become teachers, translators, administrators and journalists. Their valued language skills have enabled them to work in diverse fields including banking, entertainment, media, education and tourism, as well as for a host of UK and international companies. In particular, a degree in modern languages lends itself to a career in education, translation, interpretation, trade, PR, communications, immigration or diplomacy.
For example, one of our
recent graduates
is now a newspaper editor in Spain, while another teaches modern languages in Southampton.
We also work with the University's
Student Development Team
to help you find out about further work experience, internships, placements, and voluntary opportunities.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
UK and EU applicants:
All applications for degree courses with a foundation year (Year Zero) will be considered individually, whether you
think you might not have the grades to enter the first year of a degree course;
have non-traditional qualifications or experience (e.g. you haven’t studied A-levels or a BTEC);
are returning to university after some time away from education; or
are looking for more support during the transition into university study.
Standard offer:
Our standard offer is 72 UCAS tariff points from at least two full A-levels, or equivalent.
Examples of the above tariff may include:
A-levels: DDD
BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma: MMP
T-levels: Pass with E in core
If you are unsure whether you meet the entry criteria, please
get in touch
for advice.
Mature applicants and non-traditional academic backgrounds:
We welcome applications from mature students (over 21) and students with non-traditional academic backgrounds (might not have gone on from school to take level 3 qualifications).  We will consider your educational and employment history, along with your personal statement and reference, to gain a rounded view of your suitability for the course.
International applicants:
Essex Pathways Department is unable to accept applications from international students. Foundation pathways for international students are available at the
University of Essex International College
and are delivered and awarded by Kaplan, in partnership with the University of Essex. Successful completion will enable you to progress to the relevant degree course at the University of Essex.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Undergraduate Admissions team at
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
English language requirements for applicants whose first language is not English:
IELTS 5.5 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in each component, or specified score in another equivalent test that we accept.
Details of English language requirements, including component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
If we accept the English component of an international qualification it will be included in the academic levels listed above for the relevant countries.
English language shelf-life
Most English language qualifications have a validity period of 5 years. The validity period of Pearson Test of English, TOEFL and CBSE or CISCE English is 2 years.
If you require a Student visa to study in the UK please see our
immigration webpages
for the latest Home Office guidance on English language qualifications.
Pre-sessional English courses
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Pending English language qualifications
You don’t need to achieve the required level before making your application, but it will be one of the conditions of your offer.
If you cannot find the qualification that you have achieved or are pending, then please email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
.
Additional Notes
If you’re an international student, but do not meet the English language or academic requirements for direct admission to this degree, you could prepare and gain entry through a pathway course. Find out more about opportunities available to you at the
University of Essex International College
Structure
Course structure
We offer a flexible course structure with a mixture of compulsory and optional modules chosen from lists.
The nature of this course is such that your individual programme will differ depending upon your pre-existing language qualifications/ the language(s) you choose to study during your course.
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The course content is therefore reviewed on an annual basis to ensure our courses remain up-to-date so modules listed are subject to change.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 0
Year 1
Year 2
Year Away
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: CORE
IA110-3-FY
(30 CREDITS)
View IA110-3-FY on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
IA150-3-FY
(30 CREDITS)
View IA150-3-FY on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Research and Academic Development Skills
(30 CREDITS)
This module is designed to support students in their academic subject disciplines and to strengthen their confidence in key skills areas such as: academic writing, research, academic integrity, collaborative and reflective practices.

The students are supported through the use of subject-specific materials tailored to their chosen degrees with alignment of assessments between academic subject modules and the skills module.
View Research and Academic Development Skills on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE WITH OPTIONS
IA108-3-FY or IA111-3-FY or IA118-3-FY
(30 CREDITS)
View IA108-3-FY or IA111-3-FY or IA118-3-FY on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Sounds
(15 CREDITS)
This module introduces you to the production of language sounds and their distribution in words, in particular, but not exclusively, in English. You will study the basic principles of phonology and develop the knowledge required to understand and begin to analyse sound systems. You will also discuss phonological processes and investigate the context and motivation of occurrence.
View Sounds on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Introduction to the Study of Language
(15 CREDITS)
View Introduction to the Study of Language on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Words and Sentences
(15 CREDITS)
Discover how to describe and analyse the structure of words, phrases, and sentences in this introductory half module. With topics including the English parts of speech, word structure and the distinction between inflection, derivation and compounding, and the identification of phrases, you will gain a solid grasp of the foundational material for the study of English linguistics, whilst developing useful analytical skills.
View Words and Sentences on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
LG114-4-SP
(15 CREDITS)
View LG114-4-SP on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: OPTIONAL
Language (Intermediate or above) Intensive Beginners Part I & II
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 06: OPTIONAL
Language (Beginners to Post A-Level) or Intensive Beginners Part I & II
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 07: COMPULSORY
Careers and Employability Skills for Languages and Linguistics
(0 CREDITS)
What are your skills? And how do they fit in with your career plans? Build your employability skills through this non-credit bearing but obligatory module. Attend workshops and events, engage in activities to raise your employability and build your knowledge of the graduate job market.
View Careers and Employability Skills for Languages and Linguistics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Research methods for language and linguistics
(15 CREDITS)
Discover the steps involved in undertaking a research project in language and linguistics and develop your own final-year project. Topics include: Reviewing literature; Formulating research questions and hypotheses; Choosing a suitable research design; Data collection; Analysis techniques; Reporting findings. You will learn through a mixture of lectures, seminars and lab sessions to build your knowledge, skills, and confidence in researching, structuring, and writing a research project.
View Research methods for language and linguistics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: OPTIONAL
English Language option
(45 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 03: OPTIONAL
Language (Post A-Level or above) option(s) from list
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 04: OPTIONAL
Language (Post Beginners or above) option(s) from list
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Careers and Employability Skills for Languages and Linguistics
(0 CREDITS)
What are your skills? And how do they fit in with your career plans? Build your employability skills through this non-credit bearing but obligatory module. Attend workshops and events, engage in activities to raise your employability and build your knowledge of the graduate job market.
View Careers and Employability Skills for Languages and Linguistics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Abroad Module 120 Credits
(120 CREDITS)
View Abroad Module 120 Credits on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY WITH OPTIONS
LG831-6-FY or LG832-6-FY
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 02: OPTIONAL
English Language option(s) from list
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 03: OPTIONAL
Language (mastery) option(s) from list
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 04: OPTIONAL
Language (Intermediate or above) option(s) from list
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Careers and Employability Skills for Languages and Linguistics
(0 CREDITS)
What are your skills? And how do they fit in with your career plans? Build your employability skills through this non-credit bearing but obligatory module. Attend workshops and events, engage in activities to raise your employability and build your knowledge of the graduate job market.
View Careers and Employability Skills for Languages and Linguistics on our Module Directory
Year abroad
On your year abroad, you have the opportunity to experience other cultures and languages, to broaden your degree socially and academically, and to demonstrate to employers that you are mature, adaptable, and organised.
Teaching
From Year 1, undergraduate students studying English Language and Linguistics modules would typically attend a two-hour teaching event for each module every week. Seminars would usually have about 20 students.
From year 1, undergraduate students studying Modern Languages modules would typically involve two to three hours of classes per week (but note that the intensive language modules would involve four to five hours of classes per week).  Classes usually contain up to 20 students within each group.
Teaching takes the form of lectures and seminar sessions or discussion classes
State-of-the-art technologies and materials create an ideal learning environment
Examples of practical work include digitally recording dialect speakers in a small traditional fishing community, or scouring digitised child language databanks
Activities designed to develop your practical language skills, such as role-play and class presentations
Cultural and social themes are explored through film, music, the internet, theatre and literature
Assessment
You're assessed through a combination of coursework (assignments, essays and tests) and end-of-year examinations.
Other assessment methods include quizzes, presentations, portfolios, group work, and projects.
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£9,250 per year
International fee
£20,475 per year
The
standard undergraduate degree fee for international students
will apply in subsequent years.
Fees will increase for each academic year of study.
Home/UK fees and funding information
International fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
Our events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex. We run a number of Open Days throughout the year which enable you to discover what our campus has to offer. 
You have the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
Check out our
Visit Us
pages to find out more information about booking onto one of our events. And if the dates aren’t suitable for you, feel free to
book a campus tour here
.
Applying
Applications for our full-time undergraduate courses should be made through the
Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS)
. Full details on how to apply can be found on the
filling in your UCAS undergraduate application
web page.
Our UK students, and some of our EU students, who are still at school or college, can apply through their school. Your school will be able to check and then submit your completed application to UCAS. Our other EU applicants  or independent applicants in the UK can also apply online through UCAS Apply.
The UCAS code for our University of Essex is
ESSEX E70
. The individual campus codes for our Loughton and Southend Campuses are ‘L' and ‘S' respectively.
You can find further information on how to apply, including information on transferring from another university, applying if you are not currently at a school or college, and applying for readmission on our
How to apply and entry requirements
page.
Please note that this course is not open to international applicants.
Offer Holder Days
If you receive an undergraduate offer to study with us in October 2024 and live in the UK, you will receive an email invitation to book onto one of our Offer Holder Days. Our Colchester Campus Offer Holder Days run from February to May 2024 on various Wednesdays and Saturdays, and our Southend Campus events run in April and May. These events provide the opportunity to meet your department, tour our campus and accommodation, and chat to current students. To support your attendance, we are offering a travel bursary, allowing you to claim up to £150 as reimbursement for travel expenses. For further information about Offer Holder Days, including terms and conditions and eligibility criteria for our travel bursary, please visit our
webpage.
If you are an overseas offer-holder, you will be invited to attend one of our virtual events. However, you are more than welcome to join us at one of our in-person Offer Holder Days if you are able to - we will let you know in your invite email how you can do this.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree virtual tours allows you to explore our University from the comfort of your home. Check out our
Colchester virtual tour
and
Southend virtual tour
to see accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Related courses
BA Modern Languages and English Language
Study mode:
Full-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Life at Essex
What it's like to live at Essex
Accommodation
Find your new home
Open Days
Come see for yourself
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website