Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FUG01619%2F1%2FBA-Stage-Management&auth=bFYgVYQgq4C37x%2FSNHpqbQ&profile=_default&rank=22&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Undergraduate
Courses
BA Stage Management
Undergraduate Course
BA Stage Management
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Course options
3 years
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Stage Management
UCAS code:
W451
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years
Location:
East15 (Loughton) Campus
Based in:
East 15 Acting School
This course is subject to final approval.
BA Stage Management at East 15 provides practical, professional training for production and technical roles, preparing you with the skills to work across theatre, TV, film, events and other creative industries.
Our programme allows you to tailor your degree to align with your interests and career aspirations. In your first year, you will complete general training which gives you a firm grounding in core stage management and technical theatre skills. In your second and third years, you can specialise in one of our exciting production pathways:
Technical Arts - Construction, Scenic Painting, and Costume
Technical Production - Stage Management and Production Management
Technical Theatre - Lighting, Sound, and Multimedia
Based on your chosen pathway, you'll graduate with one of the following degrees:
BA Stage Management and Technical Arts
BA Stage Management and Technical Theatre
BA Stage Management and Technical Production
From early on in the course, you'll be part of a production team, gaining practical experience to build your skills. You also undertake an industry-based work placement in your final year – a perfect preparation for professional life after you graduate.
Based at our picturesque
Loughton Campus
, our proximity to London means that you will be able to keep up to date with the latest technical innovations in one of the world's greatest theatre capitals. Our Stage Management department is based in its own dedicated building, Unit 4. This facility houses a large workshop, paint shop, prop shop, prop storage facilities and teaching spaces.
The Corbett Theatre, our own, fully-equipped theatre with tired seating for 130 people and technical facilities, is used as a practical training hub for the course.
Why we're great.
Hands-on experience with full immersion in production work, right from your first year.
Choice of three specialist pathways to tailor your degree towards your interests and career aspirations.
Professional industry placements during your studies, to gain invaluable real-world experience.
Our expert staff
East 15's outstanding, international teaching faculty is made up of professionals from all areas of live and recorded performance. Our vocational training is by professionals and for professionals, preparing our graduates to work successfully across the globe.
The BA Stage Management course is taught by industry professionals with years of hands-on experience, ensuring that you gain real-world insights and practical skills directly from experts.
Learn more about our staff
here
.
Specialist facilities
Our
Loughton Campus
is located at the edge of East London, giving you easy access to the city while studying in a peaceful setting. We are just a ten-mute walk from the London Underground station of Debden, allowing you to get to the centre of London in just thirty minutes.
We have three sites at the Loughton campus:
Hatfields is a beautiful Georgian dower house set in five acres of green land, boasting rehearsal spaces, dance studio, radio recording room, library, screening rooms, café and common areas.
Just a short walk from Hatfields is Roding House, containing rehearsal rooms, green room, black box theatre space and our costume department.
Next to Roding House is Unit Four, a £1.5 million facility which houses our Stage Management department. The Unit contains a large workshop, paint shop, prop shop, prop storage facilities and teaching spaces.
The Corbett Theatre based at Hatfields is our own, fully-equipped theatre. Converted from a medieval tithe barn, the theatre has tiered seating for 130 people, alongside dressing rooms and teaching facilities. We use it extensively for student productions, as well as a practical training hub for BA Stage Management students.
.
Your future
This course equips you with the skills and experience to kickstart a career in a wide range of production and technical roles. In addition to the widespread opportunities offered in the stage, film and television industry, there is huge demand across the events sector for production staff at festivals, concerts, exhibitions, sporting events and large scale outdoor events.
Students often gain employment through successful work placements. Alumni have previously worked in production and technical roles at leading British performance venues such as The National Theatre, RSC, Royal Opera House, Donmar Warehouse, Royal Court, The Watermill, The Lyric, Southwark Playhouse, The Jerwood Space, and Northern Ballet. Our graduates have also worked at the BBC, on Game of Thrones, international theatres in Dubai and China, as well as international tours and theme parks.
“I graduated with a solid understanding of not just how to be a stage manager, but how to be a good one! The technical skills I learned have made me more desirable when applying for jobs. I can communicate effectively with other departments and understand their needs throughout a production, and I can solve problems independently”.
Jessica Taylor, 2022 graduate
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
Applicants will need to be successful in an interview. Applicants should also have, or expect to have:
A-levels:
EE, or 32 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A-levels.
BTEC:
PP, or 32 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of the equivalent of 2 full A-levels.
Combined qualifications on the UCAS tariff:
32 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A levels or equivalent. Tariff point offers may be made if you are taking a qualification, or mixture of qualifications, from the list on our
undergraduate application information page.
T-levels:
Pass with E in core
IB:
two Higher Level certificates with 33
IB Career-related Programme:
We consider combinations of IB Diploma Programme courses with BTECs or other qualifications.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Undergraduate Admissions team at
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If you do not require a student visa to study in the UK then we will assess your English language proficiency/ability at your interview or audition.
English language requirements for applicants whose first language is not English:
IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in each component, or specified score in another equivalent test that we accept.
Details of English language requirements, including component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
If we accept the English component of an international qualification it will be included in the academic levels listed above for the relevant countries.
English language shelf-life
Most English language qualifications have a validity period of 5 years. The validity period of Pearson Test of English, TOEFL and CBSE or CISCE English is 2 years.
If you require a Student visa to study in the UK please see our
immigration webpages
for the latest Home Office guidance on English language qualifications.
Pre-sessional English courses
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Pending English language qualifications
You don’t need to achieve the required level before making your application, but it will be one of the conditions of your offer.
If you cannot find the qualification that you have achieved or are pending, then please email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
.
Additional Notes
If you’re an international student, but do not meet the English language or academic requirements for direct admission to this degree, you could prepare and gain entry through a pathway course. Find out more about opportunities available to you at the
University of Essex International College
Structure
Course structure
Training at East 15 draws upon over 60 years of tradition, combined with a keen sense of the world of stage and screen today. Our carefully selected modules will give you the chance to explore and develop your specialist training.
Throughout the BA Stage Management course, you'll gain comprehensive stage management and technical theatre skills, alongside hands-on experience in professional standard productions. You'll build a strong foundation in your first year, and develop your area of specialism in your second and third years. By your final year, you'll be working at a fully professional level on public productions both on our campus as well as in central London. You'll also undertake a work placement in your third year.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
Year 2
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Stage Management Skills 1
(30 CREDITS)
In this module you will; Define the various roles within a stage management team and its role within the wider production department team, develop an understanding of the Assistant Stage Manager role within the pre-production, rehearsal,
performance and post-production periods, introduce the skills of research and how these methodologies support prop sourcing for a production, develop an understanding of the Deputy Stage Manager role within the pre-production, rehearsal, performance and post production periods, introduce the understanding of the prompt script, blocking and how a Deputy Stage Manager supports
rehearsals, and develop an understanding of the Stage Manager role within the pre-production, rehearsal, performance and post-production periods.
View Stage Management Skills 1                                                                            on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Production Skills
(30 CREDITS)
This module will enable you to; take on stage management roles within productions with more responsibility, develop further their understanding of the production process in a professional environment, develop their use of working with a script as a source for information, develop the ability to interpret Design, and apply a range of techniques and practical skills when working on a practical productions
View Production Skills on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Foundation Skills in Lighting and Sound
(15 CREDITS)
Use the working script as the basic source for lighting design, effects and cues.
Understand and be experienced in the safe use of electricity and have an awareness of the appropriate use of A/C, D/C, single phase and three phase power supply.
Develop relevant computer literacy.
Understand and use current lighting control systems.
Read and interpret a lighting rig plan.
Rig and focus a range of conventional lanterns.
Operate follow spot and a range of other basic stage electrics.
Understand the artistic decisions behind using effects such as gobos, smoke machines, dry ice and pyrotechnics.
Explore and gain experience in the use of creative lighting in performance.
Understand the use of rehearsal notes.
React positively to changes communicated throughout the rehearsal process.
View Foundation Skills in Lighting and Sound on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Foundation Skills in Construction and Stage Craft
(15 CREDITS)
Use a working script as a source for scenic information.
Use hand and power tools and bench machinery safely.
Construct scenery using a range of materials including timber, ironmongery, adhesives, and canvas.
Apply a range of techniques in the making of scenery including joinery, fastening and canvassing.
Develop relevant computer literacy.
Fit up and secure scenery safely, including flown scenery.
Move and assemble scenic units safely.
Use appropriate theatre and workshop terminology.
Use further processes, following construction, required to finish scenery.
Understand the use of rehearsal notes.
React positively to changes communicated throughout the rehearsal process.
Interpret ground plans in relation to staging and rigging.
Participate in get-ins, fit-ups, strikes and get-outs.
View Foundation Skills in Construction and Stage Craft                                                    on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: CORE
Foundation Skills in Production Arts
(15 CREDITS)
Undertake effective research of visual and technical references to support production and project work.
Use appropriate theatre and workshop terminology.
Discuss with the Costume Designer and Costume Supervisor how to create the best possible effect and be able to undertake research into special requirements.
Use a working script as a source for costume information.
Apply a range of techniques in the making of costumes including over-locking, hand sewing, machine sewing, and industrial machine sewing and dying.
Develop relevant computer literacy.
Cut patterns both from a block and by draping.
Make alterations and maintain costumes during a run.
Work as a dresser during performances.
Understand the use of rehearsal notes.
React positively to changes communicated throughout the rehearsal process.
View Foundation Skills in Production Arts                                                                 on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: CORE
Industry in Context 1
(15 CREDITS)
You will gain an understanding of the profile, characteristics, size and structure of the hotel and hospitality industry.  This includes an understanding of different types of business enterprise, ownership models and structures within the industry.  This module explains the economic profile of the industry and the issues and trends that continue to provide challenges.
View Industry in Context 1                                                                                on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE
EAXXX-5-XX Production and Stage Management Skills
(30 CREDITS)
View EAXXX-5-XX Production and Stage Management Skills on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
EAXXX-5-XX Assigned Production Roles
(30 CREDITS)
View EAXXX-5-XX Assigned Production Roles on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Industry in Context2
(30 CREDITS)
You will analyse current concepts in the hotel and hospitality sector, including the management structure of different operations, revenue management and the systems used to ensure high levels of customer satisfaction and profitability. This includes evaluating the influences of industry developments on the contemporary hotel and hospitality sector.
View Industry in Context2                                                                                 on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: OPTIONAL
Option(s) from list
(30 CREDITS)
View Option(s) from list on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Context in Industry 3 - Professional Placement
(30 CREDITS)
Here you will develop your knowledge and skills with regard to creative leadership. With a focus on innovation management, you will analyse the strategic implications of managing within changing industry environments and evaluate the necessary theories, tools and skills to develop realistic, coherent and effective business strategy.
View Context in Industry 3 - Professional Placement on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
EAXXX-6-FY Senior Role I Production Skills: Stage Management /Production Management
(30 CREDITS)
View EAXXX-6-FY Senior Role I Production Skills: Stage Management /Production Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: OPTIONAL
Option(s) from list
(60 CREDITS)
View Option(s) from list on our Module Directory
Teaching
Year 1
In your first year, you'll acquire essential skills in stage management and technical theatre. As part of East 15's production crew, you'll work on professional standard productions at our in-house theatre - the Corbett Theatre. Under the guidance of our industry experienced staff, you'll gain practical experience and develop your expertise across the following:
Lighting
Sound
Set design
Costume
Prop making
Construction
Stagecraft
Stage and event management
Additionally, you'll train to use specialist software relevant to roles in technical theatre. You'll also complete a design project aimed at enhancing your ability to work with professional directors and designers.
Year 2
In your second year, you'll take on increased responsibility for productions. The focus will be on developing you managerial and organisational skills, including taking responsibility for production budgets and collaborating with professional directors and designers.
Alongside honing your stage management and technical theatre abilities, you'll also begin to develop skills and enhance your employability in your chosen area of specialisation. Depending on your area of interest, you'll pursue one of the following specialist pathways:
Technical Arts - Construction, Scenic Painting, and Costume
Technical Production - Stage Management and Production Management
Technical Theatre - Lighting, Sound, and Multi-media
Year 3
By your final year, you'll work at a fully professional level,. You'll be equipped with the skills, experience and confidence in your specialisms required to take on the organisational and financial aspects of professional productions. You'll apply your abilities to a range of public productions, both on campus and in central London.
You'll also undertake an industry placement, giving you invaluable experience for a smooth transition into professional life after graduation. In the past, graduates have frequently found employment through successful work placements.
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£9,250 per year
International fee
£21,525 per year
Fees will increase for each academic year of study.
Home/UK fees and funding information
International fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We don’t currently offer Open Days for this course but if you would like more information, then please email us at
east15@essex.ac.uk
.
Applying
You can apply to our full-time undergraduate courses through either the
Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS)
or the
University of Essex Direct Application Form
.
If you choose to apply through UCAS, you can find step-by-step guidance on
how to fill your UCAS undergraduate application
. UK students (as well as some EU and international students) who are still in school or college may apply through their institution. Your school will help you complete and submit your UCAS application. The option to apply through UCAS is also available to independent UK and international applicants.
The UCAS code for the University of Essex is ESSEX E70. The individual campus codes for our Loughton and Southend Campuses are ‘L' and ‘S' respectively.
For full details on how to apply, please visit the
Applying for an Undergraduate Course
page on the East 15 website.
Apply now
Interviews
Applicants to this course will need to participate in an interview, either online or in person. Once you have submitted your UCAS or University of Essex application, you will receive an email from us with instructions on how to book your interview. There is no fee to attend the interview.
The interview is an opportunity for you to share your passion and enthusiasm for the creative industries, be it theatre, film, TV, radio, or events.
If you live in the UK, you’ll have the chance to visit our campus and meet some of our staff in person during your interview.
Offers for this course are made only after a successful interview.
Visit Loughton Campus
You’ll be in intensive training at one of the most prestigious and internationally respected conservatoires in the country, gaining the skills and knowledge necessary to pursue a career in the performing arts. You'll arrive at a campus with state-of-the-art study and performance facilities, nestled in the stunning grounds of a country house.
But fear not! It’s not all work and no play at
East 15 Acting School
in Loughton and you're just a short step away from the bright lights and big city of central London.
Find out more
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Life at Essex
What it's like to live at Essex
Accommodation
Find your new home
Open Days
Come see for yourself
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website