Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FUG00129%2F1%2FBA-Teaching-English-as-a-Foreign-Language-TEFL&auth=RQoquJF4xGQ8z0X%2B11KeMw&profile=_default&rank=344&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Undergraduate
Courses
BA Teaching English as a Foreign Language (TEFL)
Undergraduate Course
BA Teaching English as a Foreign Language
(TEFL)
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Course options
3 years
+ Placement Year
+ Year Abroad
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Teaching English as a Foreign Language (TEFL)
UCAS code:
QX31
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Language and Linguistics
What do you need to know about the English language to teach it? How do you teach English in a variety of different contexts? Do you want to understand more about the types of contexts English Language teachers work in? Do you want to graduate with a professional qualification as well as a degree? Are you interested in starting a career in TEFL and in English Language Teaching in the UK as well as in international contexts?
You explore a broad range of topics that give you a thorough grounding in English language, teaching methodologies as well as practical training in TEFL. You study topics including:
Second language learning
Foundations of TEFL
Language in Society
Practical training in TEFL methods linguistics and sociolinguistics
The structure of the English language
In each year it is possible to take a modern foreign language option, if you wish, instead of an English language option.
In your first year, you take two practical TEFL modules where you learn about teaching methodology, receive guided preparation sessions, and engage in teaching practice. Taken together, these modules are worth 60 credits and provide the content required for a TEFL-initiate qualification. On successful completion, you're awarded a stand-alone certificate in TEFL which will help you start your teaching career.
We are 1st in UK for research impact in modern languages and linguistics (Grade Point Average, Research Excellence Framework 2021).
If you want a global outlook, are interested in human communication, and want to study for a degree with real-world practical value in an established department, welcome to Essex.
Why we're great.
In your second year, you take teaching practice modules. On successful completion, these give you practical experience and a TEFL-initiate qualification recognised by the British Council.
You are taught by lecturers who are internationally recognised for their research.
We’re in the top 200 globally for linguistics in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2024
Study abroad
Your education extends beyond the university campus. We support you in expanding your education through offering the opportunity to spend a year or a term studying abroad at one of our partner universities. The four-year version of our degree allows you to spend the third year abroad or employed on a placement abroad, while otherwise remaining identical to the three-year course.
Studying abroad allows you to experience other cultures and languages, to broaden your degree socially and academically, and to demonstrate to employers that you are mature, adaptable, and organised.
If you spend a full year abroad you'll only pay 15% of your usual tuition fee to Essex for that year. You won't pay any tuition fees to your host university
Placement year
On a placement year you can gain relevant work experience within an external business, giving you a competitive edge in the graduate job market and providing you with key contacts within the industry. You will be responsible for finding your placement, but with support and guidance provided by both your department and our
placements team
.
If you complete a placement year you'll only pay 20% of your usual tuition fee to Essex for that year.
Our expert staff
Our staff
maintain excellent student-staff ratios with capped language-specific seminars.
In theoretical linguistics, Kyle Jerro and Hannah Gibson work on the structure of words and sentences, focusing on English and other languages. Scott Lewis and Nancy Kula work on sound structure.
In sociolinguistics, Rebecca Clift, Enam Al Wer, Ella Jeffries and Amanda Cole all work on different aspects of how language varies, and investigate which factors cause such variation.
In applied linguistics, Karen Roehr-Brackin and Adela Gánem-Gutiérrez focus on the learning of second and further languages, whilst Tracey Costley, Christina Gkonou, Neophytos Mitsigkas and Nasser Jabbari focus on issues to do with the classroom teaching of English as a foreign language.
In psycholinguistics, Claire Delle Luche and Laurie Lawyer use experimental techniques such as eyetracking and EEG to understand how children learn language, how adults process language, and what happens when language ability is impaired by brain disorders or other factors (e.g. hearing impairment).
In all of these areas, we combine a theoretical approach with high-level, qualitative and quantitative, empirical and experimental technique; in particular, we have a strong interest in recent developments in inferential statistics.
Specialist facilities
Our ‘Visual World' Experimental Lab records response times and eye movements when individuals are presented with pictures and videos
Our Eye-Tracking Lab monitors eye movement of individuals performing tasks
Our Psycholinguistics Lab measures how long it takes individuals to react to words, texts and sounds
Our Linguistics Lab has specialist equipment to analyse sound
An exciting programme of
research seminars and other events
Our
Albert Sloman Library
houses a strong collection of books, journals, electronic resources and major archives
Our
Languages for All
programme offers you the opportunity to study an additional language alongside your course at no extra cost
Your future
Studying language and linguistics allows you to develop your research and IT skills by collecting and analysing linguistic data using state-of-the-art technology, and a combination of team-work and independent projects enhances your communication, problem-solving, and management skills.
Graduates of our department
have gone on to have careers in a wide variety of fields, including teaching (in the UK and abroad), journalism, branding, advertising, marketing, travel, communications, publishing, speech and occupational therapy, interpreting, translating and media. Other graduates have gone on to work for a wide range of high-profile companies including:
The British Council
English in Action
Royal Bank of Scotland
Macmillan Publishers
Cambridge University Press
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
Decisive Media Ltd
We also work with the University's
Student Development Team
to help you find out about further work experience, internships, placements, and voluntary opportunities.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
A-levels:
BBB - BBC or 120 - 112 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A-levels.
BTEC:
DDM - DMM or 120 - 112 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of the equivalent of 2 full A-levels.
Combined qualifications on the UCAS tariff:
120 - 112 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A levels or equivalent. Tariff point offers may be made if you are taking a qualification, or mixture of qualifications, from the list on our
undergraduate application information page.
IB:
30 - 29 points or three Higher Level certificates with 555-554.
IB Career-related Programme:
We consider combinations of IB Diploma Programme courses with BTECs or other qualifications. Advice on acceptability can be provided, email
Undergraduate Admissions
QAA-approved Access to HE Diploma:
6 level 3 credits at Distinction and 39 level 3 credits at Merit, depending on subject studied - advice on acceptability can be provided, email
Undergraduate Admissions
T-levels:
We consider T-levels on a case-by-case basis, depending on subject studied. The offer for most courses is Distinction overall. Depending on the course applied for there may be additional requirements, which may include a specific grade in the Core.
Contextual Offers:
We are committed to ensuring that all students with the merit and potential to benefit from an Essex education are supported to do so. If you are a home fee paying student residing in the UK you may be eligible for a Contextual Offer of up to two A-level grades, or equivalent, below our standard conditional offer.
Factors we consider:
Applicants from underrepresented groups
Applicants progressing from University of Essex Schools Membership schools/colleges
Applicants who attend a compulsory admissions interview
Applicants who attend an Offer Holder Day at our Colchester or Southend campus
Our
contextual offers policy
outlines additional circumstances and eligibility criteria.
For further information about what a contextual offer may look like for your specific qualification profile, email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
.
If you haven't got the grades you hoped for, have a non-traditional academic background, are a mature student, or have any questions about eligibility for your course, more information can be found on our
undergraduate application information page
or get in touch with our
Undergraduate Admissions Team.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Undergraduate Admissions team at
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
English language requirements for applicants whose first language is not English:
IELTS 6.0 overall, or specified score in another equivalent test that we accept.
Details of English language requirements, including component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
If we accept the English component of an international qualification it will be included in the academic levels listed above for the relevant countries.
English language shelf-life
Most English language qualifications have a validity period of 5 years. The validity period of Pearson Test of English, TOEFL and CBSE or CISCE English is 2 years.
If you require a Student visa to study in the UK please see our
immigration webpages
for the latest Home Office guidance on English language qualifications.
Pre-sessional English courses
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Pending English language qualifications
You don’t need to achieve the required level before making your application, but it will be one of the conditions of your offer.
If you cannot find the qualification that you have achieved or are pending, then please email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
.
Requirements for second and final year entry
Different requirements apply for second and final year entry, and specified component grades are also required for applicants who require a visa to study in the UK. Details of English language requirements, including UK Visas and Immigration minimum component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
Additional Notes
If you’re an international student, but do not meet the English language or academic requirements for direct admission to this degree, you could prepare and gain entry through a pathway course. Find out more about opportunities available to you at the
University of Essex International College
Structure
Course structure
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The following modules are based on the current course structure and may change in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
Year 2
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Sounds
(15 CREDITS)
This module introduces you to the production of language sounds and their distribution in words, in particular, but not exclusively, in English. You will study the basic principles of phonology and develop the knowledge required to understand and begin to analyse sound systems. You will also discuss phonological processes and investigate the context and motivation of occurrence.
View Sounds on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Introduction to the Study of Language
(15 CREDITS)
View Introduction to the Study of Language on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Theory and Practice in English Language Teaching
(15 CREDITS)
This module explores significant methodological aspects of English language teaching from a theoretical perspective. You will understand how to apply the theory to practice through your lesson plans.
View Theory and Practice in English Language Teaching on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Words and Sentences
(15 CREDITS)
Discover how to describe and analyse the structure of words, phrases, and sentences in this introductory half module. With topics including the English parts of speech, word structure and the distinction between inflection, derivation and compounding, and the identification of phrases, you will gain a solid grasp of the foundational material for the study of English linguistics, whilst developing useful analytical skills.
View Words and Sentences on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
LG114-4-SP
(15 CREDITS)
View LG114-4-SP on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Introduction to TEFL Methodology
(15 CREDITS)
This module provides an introduction to the teaching methodology associated with teaching English as a Foreign or Second Language. It aims to provide students with an overview of the key principles related to the areas outlined in the syllabus, and therefore provide a basis from which students may move onto the Initial Teaching Practice module, LG666. By the end of the module, students will have been introduced to the key methodology associated with TEFL and they will have developed their knowledge of productive and receptive skills in language teaching. Additionally, various techniques for organizing and managing the class will be explored, and the students will be introduced to lesson planning for the EFL context. Lastly, and importantly, this module will provide an overview of TEFL which is sufficient to prepare students for a more successful hands-on teaching practice module.
View Introduction to TEFL Methodology on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: COMPULSORY WITH OPTIONS
(LG115-4-AU and LG119-4-SP) or Language option(s) from list
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 08: COMPULSORY
Careers and Employability Skills for Languages and Linguistics
(0 CREDITS)
What are your skills? And how do they fit in with your career plans? Build your employability skills through this non-credit bearing but obligatory module. Attend workshops and events, engage in activities to raise your employability and build your knowledge of the graduate job market.
View Careers and Employability Skills for Languages and Linguistics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Initial Teaching Practice
(30 CREDITS)
Put teaching theory into practice by planning and delivering a range of grammar, vocabulary and skills development lessons. Starting with a fully guided session and culminating in an independently planned lesson, the support from your tutor lessens each week as you develop your ability to prepare and plan your teaching.
View Initial Teaching Practice on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Research methods for language and linguistics
(15 CREDITS)
Discover the steps involved in undertaking a research project in language and linguistics and develop your own final-year project. Topics include: Reviewing literature; Formulating research questions and hypotheses; Choosing a suitable research design; Data collection; Analysis techniques; Reporting findings. You will learn through a mixture of lectures, seminars and lab sessions to build your knowledge, skills, and confidence in researching, structuring, and writing a research project.
View Research methods for language and linguistics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Language Teaching in Different Contexts
(15 CREDITS)
This module explores the different contexts language teachers find themselves in and how this affects teaching practice and course structures. You learn how to develop and enhance materials and appropriate activities in order to get the best from your students.y learning.
View Language Teaching in Different Contexts on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Multilingualism
(15 CREDITS)
This module covers topics in multilingualism and language contact.  First, you will look at multilingualism at the level of the individual and cover topics such as language choice, diglossia, and code-switching.  You will then consider multilingualism at the societal level and look at the outcomes of language contact. This will involve exploring the coexistence of more than one language within the same community and the issues that arise as a result including language maintenance and shift, the plight of minority and endangered languages and the emergence of Pidgin and Creole languages.
View Multilingualism on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: OPTIONAL
Linguistics option(s) or Language option(s) from list
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 06: OPTIONAL
Linguistics option from list
(15 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 07: COMPULSORY
Careers and Employability Skills for Languages and Linguistics
(0 CREDITS)
What are your skills? And how do they fit in with your career plans? Build your employability skills through this non-credit bearing but obligatory module. Attend workshops and events, engage in activities to raise your employability and build your knowledge of the graduate job market.
View Careers and Employability Skills for Languages and Linguistics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY WITH OPTIONS
LG831-6-FY or LG832-6-FY or BE947-6-FY
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Literature and Language Teaching
(15 CREDITS)
How do you select literature for a language class? What are the distinctive features of literature for classroom use? What practical activities can language teachers undertake using literature? Learn to incorporate literature into the language classroom. Examine novels, poetry and drama, and understand how to use drama in the classroom.
View Literature and Language Teaching on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Cognitive Linguistics for Second Language Learning and Teaching
(15 CREDITS)
This module offers an introduction to the discipline of cognitive linguistics and its application to second (L2) language learning and teaching. It focuses on cognitive linguistics views on the nature of language and language learning with specific reference to the L2 context. Cognitive linguistics sees meaning as the core of language both in relation to lexical items and grammar. Meaning is seen as closely related to general knowledge; grammar as shaped and constrained by general cognitive processes, by the needs of speakers in interaction, and by frequency of use. The module covers key concepts in the field, such as conceptualisation and construal, radial networks, encyclopaedic knowledge and its role in language comprehension and production, metaphor and metonymy, and embodied cognition.
View Cognitive Linguistics for Second Language Learning and Teaching on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: OPTIONAL
TEFL or Linguistics option(s) from list
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 05: OPTIONAL
Linguistics option(s) or Language option(s) from list
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Careers and Employability Skills for Languages and Linguistics
(0 CREDITS)
What are your skills? And how do they fit in with your career plans? Build your employability skills through this non-credit bearing but obligatory module. Attend workshops and events, engage in activities to raise your employability and build your knowledge of the graduate job market.
View Careers and Employability Skills for Languages and Linguistics on our Module Directory
Year abroad
On your year abroad, you have the opportunity to experience other cultures and languages, to broaden your degree socially and academically, and to demonstrate to employers that you are mature, adaptable, and organised. The rest of your course remains identical to the three-year degree. Our
Programme Specification
gives more detail about modules on your year abroad.
Teaching
Undergraduate students studying English Language and Linguistics modules would typically attend a two-hour teaching event for each module every week. Seminars would usually have about 20 students.
Undergraduate students studying Modern Languages modules would typically involve two to three hours of classes per week (but note that the intensive language modules would involve four to five hours of classes per week).  Classes usually contain up to 20 students within each group.
Teaching is arranged to allow freedom in how you organise your learning experience
Examples of practical work include digitally recording dialect speakers in a small traditional fishing community, or scouring digitised child language databanks
Other teaching methods include lectures, demonstrations and learning by teaching others
Assessment
You're assessed through a combination of coursework (assignments, essays and tests) and end-of-year examinations.
Weighted 50% coursework and 50% exams depending on which modules you choose.
Other assessment methods include quizzes, presentations, portfolios, group work, and projects.
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£9,250 per year
International fee
£20,475 per year
Fees will increase for each academic year of study.
Home/UK fees and funding information
International fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
Our events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex. We run a number of Open Days throughout the year which enable you to discover what our campus has to offer. 
You have the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
Check out our
Visit Us
pages to find out more information about booking onto one of our events. And if the dates aren’t suitable for you, feel free to
book a campus tour here
.
Applying
Applications for our full-time undergraduate courses should be made through the
Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS)
. Full details on how to apply can be found on the
filling in your UCAS undergraduate application
web page.
Our UK students, and some of our EU and international students, who are still at school or college, can apply through their school. Your school will be able to check and then submit your completed application to UCAS. Our other international applicants (EU or worldwide) or independent applicants in the UK can also apply online through UCAS Apply.
The UCAS code for our University of Essex is
ESSEX E70
. The individual campus codes for our Loughton and Southend Campuses are 'L' and 'S' respectively.
You can find further information on how to apply, including information on transferring from another university, applying if you are not currently at a school or college, and applying for readmission on our
How to apply and entry requirements
page.
Offer Holder Days
If you receive an undergraduate offer to study with us in October 2024 and live in the UK, you will receive an email invitation to book onto one of our Offer Holder Days. Our Colchester Campus Offer Holder Days run from February to May 2024 on various Wednesdays and Saturdays, and our Southend Campus events run in April and May. These events provide the opportunity to meet your department, tour our campus and accommodation, and chat to current students. To support your attendance, we are offering a travel bursary, allowing you to claim up to £150 as reimbursement for travel expenses. For further information about Offer Holder Days, including terms and conditions and eligibility criteria for our travel bursary, please visit our
webpage.
If you are an overseas offer-holder, you will be invited to attend one of our virtual events. However, you are more than welcome to join us at one of our in-person Offer Holder Days if you are able to - we will let you know in your invite email how you can do this.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree virtual tours allows you to explore our University from the comfort of your home. Check out our
Colchester virtual tour
and
Southend virtual tour
to see accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
CHAT TO US
ASK OUR STUDENTS AND STAFF ANYTHING
Read all about it
Get a prospectus
Study at Essex
Find a course
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website