Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FUG00418%2F1%2FBA-World-Performance&auth=mC8kpLPnJlNWxN0UoqUuLw&profile=_default&rank=21&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Undergraduate
Courses
BA World Performance
Undergraduate Course
BA World Performance
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Course options
3 years
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
World Performance
UCAS code:
W495
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years
Location:
Southend Campus
Based in:
East 15 Acting School
BA World Performance is a unique, creative and challenging course that offers an intense training in western and non-western acting techniques, performance and devising skills, and the advanced study of global theatre traditions. You will develop the tools required to become both a performer and theatre maker, able to work in many fields, anywhere in the world.
Throughout the course, you study a variety of acting styles, voice, movement, dance-drama, clowning, masks, storytelling, world music, singing and a range of global performance techniques. You devise, create and perform projects reflecting the range of influences and styles encountered during your studies, while simultaneously developing skills in media, writing and directing. There is also an opportunity to study overseas, allowing the chance to fully immerse yourself in the performance culture of another country.
We offer a broad range of scholarships and bursaries to support your studies with us. EU students are eligible for the
Undergraduate EU Scholarship
, which offers a discount of £5000 on annual tuition fees for each year of study. European students from non-EU countries (including Norway, Iceland and Turkey) could be eligible for a
regional scholarship
worth £3000. We have more scholarships available based on your country of residence or academic record. To explore these and check your eligibility, visit the
University of Essex scholarships and funding page
.
This course is taught at our vibrant and modern
Southend Campus
. With its lively, state-of-the-art facilities and close-knit international community, Southend is the perfect environment for living and learning.
View more undergraduate courses from
East 15 Acting School
, including further Actor training programs as well as behind the scenes courses in Creative Producing and Stage & Production Management.
Why we're great.
Practical skills in global performance techniques.
Visiting international practitioners.
Opportunities for study overseas.
Our expert staff
Our training is by professionals and for professionals, allowing our graduates to work successfully across the globe.
Our international, outstanding teaching faculty is made up of professionals from all areas of live and recorded performance.
Learn more about our staff
here
.
Specialist facilities
Our
Southend Campus
is based in the heart of Southend-on-Sea. A vibrant and modern British seaside town with excellent transport links.
Famous for its beach resort and pier, Southend-on-Sea stretches along seven miles of award-winning coastline. There are also over 650 acres of parks and gardens, a fun park, leisure centres, pubs, clubs, cafés and restaurants.
Southend Central railway station is opposite our Campus and the journey to central London takes less than an hour. Southend Airport, with flights to many European and UK destinations is just three miles away. We are also just one hour away from London's Stansted Airport.
Our Gateway Building houses a purpose-built suite specifically for East 15 students. This includes fully equipped, state-of-the art rehearsal studios with panoramic views across Southend-on-Sea, plus seminar rooms, computer labs and media production resources including an Apple Mac edit suite for our BA Creative Producing (Theatre & Short Film) students.
A magnificent Victorian former church in the heart of Southend's conservation area was converted into East 15's Clifftown Theatre. It also houses a variety of unique spaces for rehearsals, technical and practical work and performances. The church nave, with its original organ and stained glass windows now provides an inspirational and atmospheric environment, re-designed to accommodate the needs of a twenty-first century performance space.
In ‘The Forum' building, students have round the clock, secure access to the Learning Hub, which provides innovative IT and study spaces. The Forum also houses an integrated public and academic library, carrying books and other support materials. Students in Southend also have access to the East 15 Loughton Campus library and the University's Colchester Campus library.
Outside of learning, the Students' Union at our Southend Campus provides a dedicated space for students to meet, have a coffee, relax and watch films or sport. It runs a wide variety of entertainment throughout the term, such as international nights and open mic nights.
Your future
Graduating students will be equipped not only as actors and performers, but will also possess the skills to develop careers as directors, facilitators, producers and researchers. They also hold a particular knowledge of different cultures that will prepare them for working anywhere in the world.
“I have had unique opportunities to meet and work with expert practitioners from around the world and to learn skills that will set me apart from other drama school graduates. I would recommend East 15 and its courses to any student looking for contemporary training for the theatre of today – the industry is changing and East 15 has their finger firmly on the pulse.”
Natalie Bradbury, BA World Performance
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
Applicants will need to be successful in an interview. Applicants should also have, or expect to have:
A-levels:
DD/EEE, or 48 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A-levels.
BTEC:
MP, or 48 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of the equivalent of 2 full A-levels.
Combined qualifications on the UCAS tariff:
48 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A levels or equivalent. Tariff point offers may be made if you are taking a qualification, or mixture of qualifications, from the list on our
undergraduate application information page.
T-levels:
Pass with E in core
IB:
two Higher Level certificates with 33
IB Career-related Programme:
We consider combinations of IB Diploma Programme courses with BTECs or other qualifications.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Undergraduate Admissions team at
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If you do not require a student visa to study in the UK then we will assess your English language proficiency/ability at your interview or audition.
English language requirements for applicants whose first language is not English:
IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in each component, or specified score in another equivalent test that we accept.
Details of English language requirements, including component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
If we accept the English component of an international qualification it will be included in the academic levels listed above for the relevant countries.
English language shelf-life
Most English language qualifications have a validity period of 5 years. The validity period of Pearson Test of English, TOEFL and CBSE or CISCE English is 2 years.
If you require a Student visa to study in the UK please see our
immigration webpages
for the latest Home Office guidance on English language qualifications.
Pre-sessional English courses
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Pending English language qualifications
You don’t need to achieve the required level before making your application, but it will be one of the conditions of your offer.
If you cannot find the qualification that you have achieved or are pending, then please email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
.
Additional Notes
If you’re an international student, but do not meet the English language or academic requirements for direct admission to this degree, you could prepare and gain entry through a pathway course. Find out more about opportunities available to you at the
University of Essex International College
Structure
Course structure
We offer dynamic and unique courses for actors, directors, producers, technical theatre specialists and students of theatre practice. Training at East 15 draws upon 50 years of tradition combined with a keen sense of the world of stage and screen today.
Our carefully selected modules will give you the chance to explore and develop your specialist training.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
Year 2
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Theatre History in a Global Context
(30 CREDITS)
This module provides students with a grounding in the development of theatre and performance throughout the world, and approaches to studying and analysing theatre movements and events in their specific social, political and cultural contexts.

It includes a survey of the development of theatre and performance from pre-literate oral cultures to the present day, as well as an introduction to historiography and key theories and methodologies related to the study of performance. The module also develops research, reading, writing, time-management and organisation skills. It introduces the use of relevant IT and Library resources and provides specific learning on study skills including the form and use of citations (references), footnotes and bibliographies. The module will also provide guidance on avoiding plagiarism and other academic offences.

This module has been designed to enable students to integrate their subject knowledge with an understanding of sustainable development, acquiring the skills and competencies essential for addressing the urgent sustainability challenges of the 21st century.
View Theatre History in a Global Context on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Performance Skills
(30 CREDITS)
Warm-up and preparation techniques: This unit teaches and practises a range of sound techniques for preparing the body and voice for performance or class work.

Anatomy and physiology for the performer: Offers an overview of the basic science underlying movement and vocal production.

Vocal skills: The development of your vocal capability, with attention to fitness, breathing, and clarity; and a study of the ways in which the speaking voice may be used creatively in performance.

Singing: The development of your singing voice, allied to vocal skills (above). Exploration of individual singing range and introduction to ensemble and harmony skills and basic music theory. Development of individual singing warm-ups.

Movement: Development of your fitness, balance, and body-awareness, and a study of the creative use of movement in performance.
View Performance Skills                                                                                   on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
World Theatre Studies
(30 CREDITS)
This module introduces students to a wide range of theatre forms from around the world and equips the students with all the skills necessary to document, research, recreate and probe the cultural context of these diverse theatre traditions In addition to approaching topics in intercultural theatre and the study of world theatre in general, this module equips students at the outset of the degree with essential techniques and knowledge which they will be able to draw on and develop further in the final two years of study.
View World Theatre Studies                                                                                on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Music and World Performance
(30 CREDITS)
Western musical performance: May include an examination of opera, music hall, choral performance, the Broadway musical, etc. Study is through both lectures and workshop sessions.

Asian musical performance: May include study of, for example, Gamelan, Kabuki, Noh, Kathakali, Chinese Opera, etc. Study is through both lectures and workshop sessions.

African or South American musical performance: May include the study of, for example, African drumming, Samba, Calypso, etc. Study is through both lectures and workshop sessions.

Performance project: A group practical project, led by a tutor, which allows you to develop, select, and apply musical elements in a specific performance form.
View Music and World Performance                                                                          on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Ritual and Religious Performance
(15 CREDITS)
Defining ritual in and as performance: Building on Year One work in Theatre Anthropology, and introducing the work of Richard Schechner, a consideration of the ritual roots of much World Performance and the interpretative implications of this complex interrelation.

Case study one: sacred performance: An examination and practical exploration of one or two performance forms situated within or arising from an explicitly sacred context (eg Balinese Temple Dance, Ancient Greek tragedy, African spirit dance, Native American hunting dance, etc).

Case study two: ritualised performance: A study, including particular attention to training methods, of one or two performance forms in which recognisable ritual is a major element of both the creation and the spectation of the work (eg Noh Theatre, Chinese Opera, Carnival, Javanese Shadow Puppetry, etc).

Group practical project: Working under the guidance of tutors and in groups of four or five, students create a short ritual or religion influenced presentation, demonstrating understanding and skills derived from one of the case studies.
View Ritual and Religious Performance on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Media and Theatre Production Skills
(15 CREDITS)
This module introduces hands-on skills in camera use and editing as well as writing for the camera. In addition, you receive an introduction to stage management and production skills and an introduction to the basic principles of lighting for performances. You learn in workshop and studio settings. The module emphasises an understanding of the technical processes underlying your own practical work.

The module includes the development and production of a short film (3-5 minutes long) from conception, to final completion of script, shooting of the script and post-production (editing) of the film for final screening. It also includes workshops in stage management and lighting, leading to a technical analysis of a theatrical production.
View Media and Theatre Production Skills on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Visiting Artist
(30 CREDITS)
Context: Seminar and workshop sessions, supported by your own independent research, to introduce the specific context of the visiting company’s work.

Workshops: Practical workshops with members of the visiting company, supported by East 15 tutors where appropriate, to develop your performance skills and to create the assessed performance.
View Visiting Artist on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Mask
(15 CREDITS)
The module engages you in a study of two or three mask-based performance forms, with an overview of interpretative and performative issues in mask work.
View Mask on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: CORE
Storytelling
(15 CREDITS)
This second year BA World Performance core module delivers an overview of the historical relationship of storytelling to contemporary performance, a study of two or three storytelling performance forms and study of the relationship of the storyteller to character and audience.

The module also develops students' understanding of narrative and the transmission of stories through theatrical presentation.

In addition, students will develop writing and devising skills, culminating in a collaborative devised presentation and a scriptwriting project
View Storytelling on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: CORE
Comedy
(15 CREDITS)
This module offers you an exploration of different manifestations of Comedy, through case-studies of two or three comic performance forms, including verbal and physical comedy, from a range of cultural backgrounds.

You gain an understanding of the universality of comedy across multiple cultures through one or two case studies. The emphasis is on the understanding, development, selection, and application of performance skills.
View Comedy on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: CORE
Non-Western Character Acting
(15 CREDITS)
This module offers a theoretically-informed study of manifestations of character role types in performance, exploring cultural prescriptions and attitudes in relation to character and performance in a variety of social and historical contexts, and case studies of two or three performance forms where character role types are highlighted (eg Kabuki, Chinese opera). There is specific attention to performance skills appropriate to the case-studies.
View Non-Western Character Acting on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Applied and Political Theatres
(30 CREDITS)
Overview: theatre and society: A survey of forms of theatre and performance which refuse to be, or seek to be more than, entertainment and has agendas beyond the aesthetic.

Case study one: core theatre: An in-depth study of one form (e.g Ancient Greek theatre festivals, Passion Plays, initiation rituals) in which the performance is an essential event in the life of the community that produces it.

Case study two: engaged practitioners: An in-depth study of one form (e.g Brecht, Agit-Prop Theatre) in which practitioners stage for an audience material with an explicitly radical socio-political content.

Case study three: engaging the audience: An in-depth study of one form (e.g Boal’s Forum Theatre, Invisible Theatre, or Theatre of the Oppressed, Worker’s Theatre, 1960s ‘Happenings’) which rely for their effect on the active involvement and participation of the spectator.
View Applied and Political Theatres                                                                       on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Intercultural Performance Project
(30 CREDITS)
Students work with professional directors to create a production using specific intercultural techniques acquired over the previous two years. Students work with professional directors to create a production using specific intercultural techniques acquired over the previous two years.
View Intercultural Performance Project on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Professional Preparation
(30 CREDITS)
This module provides you with the necessary skills and preparation to launch your professional careers. You receive specific training in audition and interview technique, in marketing skills such as web design, CVs and letters of introduction and legal and financial issues affecting professional actors.

Opportunities are provided for workshops, meetings and lectures by and with industry professionals such as agents and casting directors, as well as with working actors and directors. Throughout the module students will be given practical assignments on which they will receive feedback from guest lecturers and industry professionals.

In addition, this module provides you with the necessary professional preparation and skills to launch your acting career. You will develop the ability to understand and apply critical self-assessment in order to improve performance and employability.
View Professional Preparation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Devised Project
(30 CREDITS)
Rehearsals and production meetings: By negotiation, tutors attend rehearsals and production meetings to support, guide and advise you. The majority of rehearsal time is untutored.

Production: Performance of the finished piece for an audience. Tutors offer feedback to inform your reflection on the finished work.
View Devised Project on our Module Directory
Teaching
Year 1
Your first year provides a foundation of performance and study skills, and introduces a range of cultural influences and performance possibilities. This includes:
A physical training focused on the core skills required for engaging with world performance techniques as well as key academic tasks of assimilating and recording information and original research
Discovering the role of music in world performance, allowing you to engage from the outset with a range of cultural influences, experiment with your own performance interests and abilities, and broaden your knowledge of different cultural contexts of performance
Gaining an understating of Western performance practices and techniques alongside and in relation to performance traditions from elsewhere in the world, preparing you for the more intensive, multicultural performance training you will experience in Year 2
Year 2
For your second year you concentrate on a range of case studies that allow you to develop knowledge of different traditions, approaches and issues in world performance. In addition you have opportunities to:
Develop and apply high-level performance skills
Work intensively with visiting practitioners in a non-Western or intercultural performance form to produce and perform a major theatre piece
Increase competence and confidence as an independent practice-based researcher, in western and non-western forms
Year 3
Your final year allows you to undertake a series of major independent group performance projects. These help to develop your skills and your understanding of collaborative work, while giving you freedom to pursue your own aesthetic, intellectual and professional interests.
You will continue to broaden your perception as a performance artist, able to connect the learned techniques and approaches to your own practical experience and future professional career.
Through research, and supported by teachings in organisational and entrepreneurial skills, you will develop a professional practice connected to a global perception of the theatre and performance industry in the UK and abroad. This project helps you to develop your own unique professional and artistic vision and prepares you for professional life after you graduate.
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£9,250 per year
Additional costs for materials and field trips of up to approximately £650 per academic year. Equipment lists are reviewed annually.
International fee
£21,525 per year
Additional costs for materials and field trips of up to approximately £650 per academic year. Equipment lists are reviewed annually.
Fees will increase for each academic year of study.
Home/UK fees and funding information
International fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
Our events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex. We run a number of Open Days throughout the year which enable you to discover what our campus has to offer. 
You have the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
Check out our
Visit Us
pages to find out more information about booking onto one of our events. And if the dates aren’t suitable for you, feel free to
book a campus tour here
.
Applying
You can apply to our full-time undergraduate courses through either the
Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS)
or the
University of Essex Direct Application Form
.
If you choose to apply through UCAS, you can find step-by-step guidance on
how to fill your UCAS undergraduate application
. UK students (as well as some EU and international students) who are still in school or college may apply through their institution. Your school will help you complete and submit your UCAS application. The option to apply through UCAS is also available to independent UK and international applicants.
The UCAS code for the University of Essex is ESSEX E70. The individual campus codes for our Loughton and Southend Campuses are ‘L' and ‘S' respectively.
In addition your UCAS or University of Essex application, you must also submit an
East 15 Application Form
.
For full details on how to apply, please visit the
Applying for an Undergraduate Course
page on the East 15 website.
Apply now
Auditioning
Applicants to this course must submit a Round 1
video audition
as part of your
East 15 Application Form
. If successful at this stage, you’ll be invited to a Round 2 audition, which may take place on our campus, online, or at a regional or international audition.
Please note that we charge a £15 audition fee for Round 1 auditions. Fee waivers are available for eligible applicants. You can find out how to pay the audition fee or check your eligibility for a waiver on the
Applying for an Undergraduate Course
page.
Our staff regularly travel to conduct auditions worldwide. So if you’re not based in the UK, it’s likely that we may hold auditions near you. These will be one-on-one auditions. You can find the locations and dates of these auditions on our
International Auditions page
.
Offers for this course are made only after successful auditions.
For details of what to prepare for our auditions, please visit our
Preparing for Auditions
page.
Visit Southend Campus
Want to live in a central city location, with state-of-the-art facilities at your finger tips? Southend is the perfect environment for living and learning in a close-knit international community.
If you're joining our School of Health and Social Care, East 15 Acting School, or Essex Business School, you may well be studying at our Southend Campus.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree virtual tours allows you to explore our University from the comfort of your home. Check out our
Colchester virtual tour
and
Southend virtual tour
to see accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
CHAT TO US
ASK OUR STUDENTS AND STAFF ANYTHING
Read all about it
Get a prospectus
Study at Essex
Find a course
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website