Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FUG01504%2F1%2FBSc-Business-Administration-and-Supply-Chain-Management&auth=Nc%2B7b%2FLmIN0QaR2FBE1KKg&profile=_default&rank=143&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Undergraduate
Courses
BSc Business Administration and Supply Chain Management
Undergraduate Course
BSc Business Administration and Supply Chain Management
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Course options
3 years
+ Placement Year
+ Year Abroad
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Business Administration and Supply Chain Management
UCAS code:
N111
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years
Location:
Southend Campus
Based in:
Essex Business School
In the current global business landscape, understanding main functional areas of an organisation and the relationship among these functional areas will play a crucial role in efficiently managing an organisation. Effective co-ordination of internal processes and external partners (like suppliers) ensures a smooth flow of goods and services to the right consumer at the right time. A dysfunctional supply chain could significantly impact performance and could lead to increased product cost, delayed deliveries, and unsatisfied consumers.
Recent examples of supply chain crises (e.g. disruption in goods delivery, food shortages in several countries etc.), have reinforced the need to understand supply chain challenges and their impact on different functional units of an organisation.
BSc Business Administration and Supply Chain Management is designed to develop your knowledge and skillset and to teach you to critically understand an organisation's different functions and the supply chain's role in successfully managing an organisation.
The course will provide comprehensive knowledge of both theoretical and practical aspects of business and supply chain management, and prepare students to apply this learning in the context of real-world problems.
Study areas include:
business strategy
operations and supply chain management
business analytics
quantitative analysis
logistics management
project management
business research methods
Group work tasks develop your teamwork skills and our business simulation project puts you in charge of your virtual venture. In competition with other students, you develop your problem-solving, analysis, and creativity skills as you make decisions to optimise your business' performance.
In your final year, you'll put your knowledge into practice by producing a business plan, industry report or dissertation in an area of your choice. As well as developing the research and analytical skills needed for the workplace, you can benefit from the opportunity to make valuable business connections by gathering case studies and interviews.
The University of Essex is one of just three UK universities to have received
Q-Step Affiliate
status, including for our BSc Business Administration and Supply Chain Management, to support the way we develop the quantitative skills of our graduates.
This course is taught at
Essex Business School
. We're an international school that places a strong emphasis on responsible management, ethics, and sustainable business practices. We encourage our students to think strategically, act responsibly, and have the confidence to innovate to make positive changes in turbulent economic environments.
Why we're great.
We are uniquely located close to two of the new UK freeports, Thames Freeport and Freeport East, making us uniquely placed in the supply chain and logistics sector.
Combine core knowledge of a business management degree with the specific knowledge and skills required to succeed in organisational management.
We are ranked in the Top 175 for Business and Economics in THE World University Rankings by Subject 2024.
Study abroad
The four-year version of this course enables you to study abroad during your third year. In all other areas, this version of the course remains identical to the standard three-year variant.
You can
study abroad
with one of our exchange partners in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Latin America, the Middle East, Hong Kong and Japan. In doing so, you experience other cultures and languages, meet new people, and gain intercultural skills that are sought-after by employers.
Placement year
Alternatively, you may prefer to take on a placement during your third year to gain relevant work experience within an external organisation. A placement can provide you with valuable experience to add to your CV.
The
Placements Team
can offer bespoke support throughout the process of researching, applying and interviewing for placements. However, it is your responsibility to apply, prepare for and secure your own role. In recent years, our students have gained placements with organisations such as BMW, Samsung and Cummins.
Our expert staff
You are taught by a highly qualified, enthusiastic team of academics and practitioners with wide-ranging research interests. Their research is used in lectures and seminars so you learn about the latest issues impacting the business world.
Our
staff
specialise in areas including:
internationalisation
innovation
ethics
social responsibility
sustainability
supply chain management
business analytics
At Essex Business School we are home to academic staff who are on the cutting edge of their research areas.
Dr Debashree De
, one of our undergraduate tutors, is a Lecturer in Supply Chain Management and is passionate about solving sustainability related issues. Her research encompasses green supply chain management, sustainability, low carbon strategies and operations management, meaning that she is able to stimulate our students with relevant and topical debate.
Essex Business School is home to a number of research groups. Our
Strategy, Operations and Entrepreneurship Group
, based at our Southend Campus, are a group of international researchers with an entrepreneurial focus.  This means that your teaching in business administration and supply chain management  will cover the latest insights from research conducted in partnership with businesses from all over the world.
Specialist facilities
Our BSc Business Administration and Supply Chain Management is based at our
Southend Campus
, in close proximity to two of the eight freeport locations in the UK, Thames Freeport and Freeport East, making us uniquely placed geographically in the supply chain and logistics sector.
Our campus is conveniently located in the heart of Southend. Enjoy a host of restaurants, bars and shops on your doorstep.
You have access to our excellent, dedicated
facilities
, including:
Learning hub with computer suites and study pods, open 24/7
integrated public and academic library in the iconic modern Forum building
employability
support, events and initiatives
study skills
advice
dedicated student services team
dental practice
faith centre
our cosy SU Lounge, with pool tables and large-screen TV for socialising and relaxation!
Your future
Business administration skills are critical to successful business operations and developing these skills will prepare you for a career in business and management. The essential supply chain management skills of being able to plan, source, make, deliver and return which you will learn will set you up for the challenges that a role in supply chain management may throw at you.
Therefore, we embed a series of core and specific skills into our undergraduate curriculum for BSc Business Administration and Supply Chain Management to ensure that our graduates are suited to careers in business management and leadership roles.
All of our taught modules embed elements of our
skills map
which emulate the skills which are required by employers of business graduates, these generally include:
Academic and cognitive skills
Research skills
Technology skills
Communication skills
Data analysis skills
Soft skills
We embed a
structured approach to student development and skills support
throughout the curriculum and through additional support from the
Essex Business School Learning Team
.
Our students have gone on to become business analysts, successful entrepreneurs, account managers and management trainees, with
recent graduate destinations
including:
Associate Professional Business Analyst at
DXC Technology
– an end-to-end IT services company
Delivery Consultant at
RED - The Global SAP Solutions Provider
- a specialist recruitment firm
iX Business Consultant at
IBM
– the multifunctional information technology conglomerate
Our
management
graduates enjoy successful careers in their fields.
Additional to the skills development offered by Essex Business School, BSc Business Administration and Supply Chain Management students can also take advantage of the
University of Essex Careers Service
which focuses in particular on supporting the development of
undergraduate employability
, including: careers fairs, career mentoring, skills development, careers advice and guidance, placement year support, job opportunities, start-up support and more.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
GCSE:
Mathematics C/4.
A-levels:
BBB - BBC or 120 - 112 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A-levels.
BTEC:
DDM - DMM or 120 - 112 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of the equivalent of 2 full A-levels. The acceptability of BTECs is dependent on subject studied and optional units taken - email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
for advice.
Combined qualifications on the UCAS tariff:
120 - 112 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A levels or equivalent. Tariff point offers may be made if you are taking a qualification, or mixture of qualifications, from the list on our
undergraduate application information page.
IB:
30 - 29 points or three Higher Level certificates with 555-554. Our Maths requirement can be met with either: 4 in Standard level Maths; 3 in Higher level Maths; or 4 in IB Middle Years Maths.
IB Career-related Programme:
We consider combinations of IB Diploma Programme courses with BTECs or other qualifications. Advice on acceptability can be provided, email
Undergraduate Admissions.
QAA-approved Access to HE Diploma:
6 level 3 credits at Distinction and 39 level 3 credits at Merit, depending on subject studied - advice on acceptability can be provided, email
Undergraduate Admissions.
T-levels:
We consider T-levels on a case-by-case basis, depending on subject studied. The offer for most courses is Distinction overall. Depending on the course applied for there may be additional requirements, which may include a specific grade in the Core.
Contextual Offers:
We are committed to ensuring that all students with the merit and potential to benefit from an Essex education are supported to do so. If you are a home fee paying student residing in the UK you may be eligible for a Contextual Offer of up to two A-level grades, or equivalent, below our standard conditional offer.
Factors we consider:
Applicants from underrepresented groups
Applicants progressing from University of Essex Schools Membership schools/colleges
Applicants who attend a compulsory admissions interview
Applicants who attend an Offer Holder Day at our Colchester or Southend campus
Our
contextual offers policy
outlines additional circumstances and eligibility criteria.
For further information about what a contextual offer may look like for your specific qualification profile, email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
.
If you haven't got the grades you hoped for, have a non-traditional academic background, are a mature student, or have any questions about eligibility for your course, more information can be found on our
undergraduate application information page
or get in touch with our
Undergraduate Admissions Team.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Undergraduate Admissions team at
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
English language requirements for applicants whose first language is not English:
IELTS 6.0 overall, or specified score in another equivalent test that we accept.
Details of English language requirements, including component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
If we accept the English component of an international qualification it will be included in the academic levels listed above for the relevant countries.
English language shelf-life
Most English language qualifications have a validity period of 5 years. The validity period of Pearson Test of English, TOEFL and CBSE or CISCE English is 2 years.
If you require a Student visa to study in the UK please see our
immigration webpages
for the latest Home Office guidance on English language qualifications.
Pre-sessional English courses
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Pending English language qualifications
You don’t need to achieve the required level before making your application, but it will be one of the conditions of your offer.
If you cannot find the qualification that you have achieved or are pending, then please email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
.
Requirements for second and final year entry
Different requirements apply for second and final year entry, and specified component grades are also required for applicants who require a visa to study in the UK. Details of English language requirements, including UK Visas and Immigration minimum component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
Additional Notes
If you’re an international student, but do not meet the English language or academic requirements for direct admission to this degree, you could prepare and gain entry through a pathway course. Find out more about opportunities available to you at the
University of Essex International College
Structure
Course structure
The course structure is designed to reflect the broad nature of a degree in business administration, meaning you study a wide range of modules in all areas of business and management.
In the first year you will cover the fundamentals that every business manager needs to know including topics such as entrepreneurship, economics, accounting, finance, management and marketing. Then in second and final year you will have a mixture of compulsory and optional modules to make the degree your own.
We offer a flexible course structure with a mixture of core/compulsory modules, and optional modules chosen from lists. Please be aware that we are planning changes to our first year to make it more relevant to your chosen course.
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The following modules are based on the current course structure and may change in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
Year 2
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Principles of Marketing
(30 CREDITS)
This module provides a broad introduction to marketing at national and international levels. You explore the marketing of both products and services in organisations of different sizes, with a particular focus on entrepreneurial organisations. You explore the marketing environment for new ventures and the challenges of marketing in regional, local and global marketplaces. Other topics include the use of marketing information and research, strategic marketing planning and the marketing mix.
View Principles of Marketing on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Introduction to Accounting and Finance
(15 CREDITS)
It’s essential that every aspiring entrepreneur, manager and leader understands the basics of accounting and finance. In this introductory module you’ll explore the principles of financial and management accounting; the recording of transactions; the preparation of financial statements and their analysis; the principles of cost accumulation and decision making in businesses; techniques of cost control; the management of working capital; the sources of funding and investment appraisal. You’ll explore the key theories, carry out problem-solving exercises and learn how to apply these within companies.
View Introduction to Accounting and Finance on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
New Venture Creation
(15 CREDITS)
If you’re looking to start your own business, or to help an existing business to grow, then this module provides the essential knowledge you’ll need. You develop a greater understanding of the various aspects involved in new venture creation and growth, from opportunity identification, evaluation and implementation through to continued growth and management. Using practical exercises, case studies and videos, you learn about the business life cycle from start-up to growth and maturity and explore business development from economic and behavioural perspectives.
View New Venture Creation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Business Economics
(15 CREDITS)
This module introduces you to key economic theories and concepts, covering highly topical issues affecting the business world. Using real-life case studies, you explore the key microeconomics principles and concepts that can help to explain why economic activities occur and explore whether it is possible to improve economic situations for society.
View Business Economics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Introduction to International Business
(15 CREDITS)
At Essex Business School we’re proud of our international community, bringing international expertise into the classroom. In this module you are introduced to the global business environment and how this impacts upon corporations and their decision to operate internationally. You explore the different strategies organisations can adopt when entering international markets and examine aspects of managing multinational corporations, such as marketing, human resource management and global supply chain management.
View Introduction to International Business on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Quantitative Analysis for Business
(15 CREDITS)
Throughout your career you’ll likely need to make use of a wide variety of quantitative techniques, many of which can provide essential information to aid decision-making. In this module you gain a basic understanding of the wide variety of techniques available for analysis in business management. This is especially relevant in today's data-driven society, where large, complex data sets are widespread across many different sectors.
View Quantitative Analysis for Business on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: COMPULSORY
Professional and Academic Development
(15 CREDITS)
The Professional and Academic Development module helps you build a foundation in core academic skill requirements to help you improve the standard of your academic work across all of your first year modules. This module also introduces you to the themes of career planning and employability skills and establishing a career path.
View Professional and Academic Development on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Innovation Management
(15 CREDITS)
Explore the relationship between the innovation process and the use and management of technology, together with its links to the development of business strategy, dynamic interactions with innovation networks, learning processes and government support for innovation.
View Innovation Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Business Research Methods
(15 CREDITS)
This module introduces a number of business and management research methods, with a particular focus on entrepreneurship and small business. You explore philosophical research issues, such as selecting appropriate research methods and judging the quality and value of findings. You learn how to write a research proposal and design and plan quantitative and qualitative research. This includes collecting data, analysing findings and presenting results.
View Business Research Methods on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Principles of Operations and Supply Chain Management
(15 CREDITS)
The Principles of Operations and Supply Chain Management module integrates topics from manufacturing-operations, process design, capacity and inventory planning, and supply chain management. This module will give you an opportunity to develop knowledge and skills to manage business operations and supply chain effectively in a real-world environment. 

The aim of this module is to provide comprehensive understanding of key principles, concepts and approaches used to ensure effective management of business operations and supply chain management. The module covers an extensive range of issues including structure and scope of operations, process design, capacity and inventory management, supply chain management and quality management.
View Principles of Operations and Supply Chain Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Global Logistics Management
(15 CREDITS)
You will cover the management of logistical operations in a global context, focusing on essential logistics functions including warehousing and transport. You’ll receive a practical orientation to examine best business practices in a variety of industry settings. During this module you will discuss the strategic importance of logistics management in the wider contexts of supply chain management, business strategy, sustainability, and international trade. Learn how to apply the principles, techniques, and tools of contemporary logistics management to create improvements and competitive advantages for companies in which you will work. You’ll gain analytical and written communication skills relevant to global logistics management
View Global Logistics Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Professional and Academic Development 2
(15 CREDITS)
This module will give you a clear understanding of feedback, Dweck`s concept of a `growth mindset`, and how you can use these to improve your studies and career.

We want you to have a passion for learning, a willingness to challenge yourself, and an eagerness to learn from mistakes, so this module will help you to understand group work and presentations and to acquire the relevant skills to successfully undertake both.

The module also serves as a bridge for your final year, so that students should be able to understand the expectations of the final year and the possible career paths you can take after you graduate, and how you can use summer vacations to get ahead.
View Professional and Academic Development 2 on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Introduction to Business Analytics
(15 CREDITS)
Introduction to Business Analytics will allow you to develop core knowledge and skills in the domain of business analytics and data science.

You’ll focus on different tools and approaches to support data analysis and decision making in business environment. The module is designed to enhance your ability of data analysis to uncover embedded information useful for decision making.Learn how to valuate the potential of data analytics in supporting complex decision making in real-world business environment.
View Introduction to Business Analytics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: OPTIONAL
Option(s) from list
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Business Strategy
(30 CREDITS)
Enhance your understanding of the concepts and nature of strategy and its interactions with the macro environment, industries/sectors and business operations. You develop your skills analysing opportunities and threats, managing strategic capability and resources, understanding competitive advantage, competition and collaboration, directions and methods of business development, as well as managing strategic change.
View Business Strategy on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Global Project Management
(15 CREDITS)
Develop the skills and knowledge necessary to manage product development projects in an international business environment, with particular focus on product design methodologies and project management techniques. You explore the hard side of managing global product development projects and the soft issues such as idea generation/selection and teamwork that must be dealt with in order to ensure success of the product development projects.
View Global Project Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Research Project – Business Administration and Supply Chain Management
(30 CREDITS)
You will complete a research project in the final year of your degree. The project can take a variety of forms but unlike other assignments it involves you conducting and writing-up a piece of original research. This final research project will be supported by the knowledge and understanding of research methods gained in BE218 Business Research Methods.

The undergraduate Research Project is the equivalent of one term module in your degree course and is expected to be about 4000 to 5000 words in length. The supervisor will be assigned by the SOE Group. Once the project has been accepted, you are advised to meet with your supervisor on a regular basis.

The project can take a variety of forms, ranging from empirical research using methods such as surveys, questionnaires, interviews, and content analysis to library based theoretical work. The research project is a useful reference for a postgraduate study as well as outside employment.
View Research Project – Business Administration and Supply Chain Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Strategic Operations and Supply Chain
(15 CREDITS)
This module will give you the opportunity to develop the knowledge and skills related to strategic operations and supply chain. It focuses on introducing different concepts and approaches for developing and implementing operations and supply chain strategy with practical examples.

The module is designed to enhance your ability of analysing how strategic decision can help in deriving various operations and supply chain processes.
View Strategic Operations and Supply Chain on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Applied Business Analytics and Decision Making
(15 CREDITS)
This module will provide you with an overview of applications of business analytics for real world business problems.Business examples and case studies will be used to explain the variety of decision-making issues that can be solved using analytics to gain business intelligence. Useful business analytics software (like R, Python or similar) will be discussed in this module. 
With this understanding you can learn how to select one or more business analytics tools and appropriate software for solving specific real-world problems.
View Applied Business Analytics and Decision Making on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: OPTIONAL
Option(s) from list
(15 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 07: COMPULSORY
Career Skills in Business
(0 CREDITS)
This module will help you to understand the interests, skills and competencies which are relevant to your future career choices.

You will learn how to find the graduate-level roles and career paths available to business students and you will learn about the skills necessary to successfully compete in the graduate labour market after you graduate.
View Career Skills in Business on our Module Directory
Placement
On a placement year you gain relevant work experience within an external business or organisation, giving you a competitive edge in the graduate job market and providing you with key contacts within the industry. The rest of your course remains identical to the three-year degree.
Year abroad
On your year abroad, you have the opportunity to experience other cultures and languages, to broaden your degree socially and academically, and to demonstrate to employers that you are mature, adaptable, and organised. The rest of your course remains identical to the three-year degree.
Teaching
Undergraduate students at the Department of Essex Business School typically have 12 hours of teaching time per week.
Teaching includes a combination of lectures, seminars and computer-based lab sessions
Modules delivered by experts in the field as well as guest speakers
Contribute and interact in lectures through the use of smart technology
Lecture presentations and notes are uploaded online beforehand to help you prepare in advance
Complete your final-year project in consultation with a personal supervisor
Assessment
Assessed through traditional methods of end-of-year exams and multiple-choice questions in class tests and essays
Plus more innovative and creative assessments include laboratory work, poster presentations, real-business case problems and group presentations
Your first year marks do not count towards your final degree
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£9,250 per year
International fee
£21,525 per year
Fees will increase for each academic year of study.
Home/UK fees and funding information
International fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
Our events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex. We run a number of Open Days throughout the year which enable you to discover what our campus has to offer. 
You have the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
Check out our
Visit Us
pages to find out more information about booking onto one of our events. And if the dates aren’t suitable for you, feel free to
book a campus tour here
.
Applying
Applications for our full-time undergraduate courses should be made through the
Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS)
. Full details on how to apply can be found on the
filling in your UCAS undergraduate application
web page.
Our UK students, and some of our EU and international students, who are still at school or college, can apply through their school. Your school will be able to check and then submit your completed application to UCAS. Our other international applicants (EU or worldwide) or independent applicants in the UK can also apply online through UCAS Apply.
The UCAS code for our University of Essex is
ESSEX E70
. The individual campus codes for our Loughton and Southend Campuses are 'L' and 'S' respectively.
For information on transferring from another university, applying when you are not at school or college, and applying for readmission, please see
How to apply and entry requirements
Offer Holder Days
If you receive an undergraduate offer to study with us in October 2024 and live in the UK, you will receive an email invitation to book onto one of our Offer Holder Days. Our Colchester Campus Offer Holder Days run from February to May 2024 on various Wednesdays and Saturdays, and our Southend Campus events run in April and May. These events provide the opportunity to meet your department, tour our campus and accommodation, and chat to current students. To support your attendance, we are offering a travel bursary, allowing you to claim up to £150 as reimbursement for travel expenses. For further information about Offer Holder Days, including terms and conditions and eligibility criteria for our travel bursary, please visit our
webpage.
If you are an overseas offer-holder, you will be invited to attend one of our virtual events. However, you are more than welcome to join us at one of our in-person Offer Holder Days if you are able to - we will let you know in your invite email how you can do this.
Visit Southend Campus
Want to live in a central city location, with state-of-the-art facilities at your finger tips? Southend is the perfect environment for living and learning in a close-knit international community.
If you're joining our School of Health and Social Care, East 15 Acting School, or Essex Business School, you may well be studying at our Southend Campus.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree virtual tours allows you to explore our University from the comfort of your home. Check out our
Colchester virtual tour
and
Southend virtual tour
to see accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Life at Essex
What it's like to live at Essex
Accommodation
Find your new home
Open Days
Come see for yourself
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website