Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FUG00315%2F1%2FBSc-Nursing-Adult&auth=gmNfaJL0qqmU3aG%2B3o8faw&profile=_default&rank=420&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Undergraduate
Courses
BSc Nursing (Adult)
Undergraduate Course
BSc Nursing
(Adult)
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Location
Southend Campus
Colchester Campus
Course options
3 years
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Nursing (Adult)
UCAS code:
B740
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years
Location:
Southend Campus
Based in:
Health and Social Care (School of)
There's never been a better time to train as a nurse! Not only is public appreciation for nurses growing, so is the funding.
You can now apply for a £5000 grant that you won't need to pay back!
There is also an extra £3000 funding available depending on your personal circumstances. You can find more information about eligibility and how to apply on the
HSC Scholarships and Funding page.
Nurses are visible in all walks of life - hospitals, patients' homes, doctors' surgeries and care homes. They form the largest group of staff employed in the health and social care sector, and are crucial to everything we do in society today. With 86% of our undergraduate graduates in employment or further study (Graduate Outcomes 2024), we're confident our BSc Nursing (Adult) will help you to build a career that really makes a difference.
Adult nurses work with adults of all ages with diverse health conditions. Communication skills are essential to set patients at ease under pressurised and sometimes difficult situations, as is the ability to assess, plan, implement and evaluate the care offered to each patient. You must be willing to take responsibility for someone else's health and well-being, and show the compassion needed to ensure a good nurse-patient relationship.
Unlike many of the older, traditional nursing schools, at Essex you receive a fresh, contemporary and relevant nursing programme. You work with local organisations to ensure that you gain the best experience possible during your time with us, and studying alongside other health professionals means that you also have the opportunity to gain expert knowledge from them. We provide support throughout all aspects of your journey, including dedicated support in literacy and numeracy.
The School of Health and Social Care is proud to work closely with our Service User Reference Group (SURG).  SURG is made up of service users, carers, and volunteers who generously share their first-hand experiences of health and social care.  We work collaboratively with SURG to design our courses to ensure that we truly are putting the needs of patients and clients at the heart of what we do.  SURG are involved as part of our course application processes and often form part of our interview panels.  This helps us to be confident that we are selecting the right applicants for the course and their future careers.  SURG members also support the delivery of our teaching sessions and research activity, which means you'll benefit from an insight into their lived experiences of living with a diagnosis, health condition, or circumstance.  You'll find that not only does your clinical knowledge expand, but your empathy, compassion and ability to advocate develops also.
There are four main types of pre-registration nursing degree – child, learning disabilities, adult and mental health. At Essex we specialise in adult and mental health nursing courses, as well as offering
apprenticeships
for those already in employment in a healthcare setting and
CPD courses
for those who already have professional registration.  For a full list of our undergraduate and research nursing courses, take a look at our
subject pages
.
The cost of required uniform will be fully covered by the school.
Placement Opportunities
Half of your studies will be spent working in clinical settings – for example, in a ward, a health centre or in client's homes. You will be working alongside nurses as you practice and perfect your skills.
Placements are based in NHS, private and voluntary settings throughout Essex. You will work shift patterns whilst in placement equivalent to approximately a 37.5 hour week. This includes early shifts, late shifts, night shifts, weekend and bank holiday working.
Location
You can choose to study this course at either our Colchester campus or 
our Southend campus - and your placements will correspond to the campus you choose. 
Colchester students will have placements in north Essex, while Southend students 
will have placements in south Essex.
Whilst this course is offered at both our Southend and Colchester campuses, we recommend that you consider which location would suit you best and apply for that campus.  If you apply to multiple campuses, you will only have one interview and your chances of being offered a place will be the same as if you had only applied to one campus.
If you wish to change campus at any point during the admissions process then please contact your Admissions Adviser who will do their best to accommodate your preference. Changing campus is subject to availability.
Making your application
Before you make your application, take a look at our frequently asked questions section at the bottom of our
undergraduate department pages
.  Here you will find hints and tips on what we are looking for, as well as useful resources to help you prepare for interviews.
DBS and Occupational Health Checks
This course requires a satisfactory Occupational Health Check and enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Check (including child and adult barred list check) - both of these are organised by the University.  Please contact our
DBS team
or
Occupational Health team
if you have any questions in relation to these checks.
A satisfactory Overseas Criminal Record Check/Local Police Certificate is also required, in addition to a DBS Check, where you have lived outside of the UK in the last 5 years for 6 months or more.  Further information about how to obtain an Overseas Criminal Record check can be found on the
Gov.uk website
.
Vaccinations
We continue to recommend Covid and flu vaccination.  This is to protect both yourself and the vulnerable people that you may meet throughout your placement.
Professional accreditation
Recognised by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) for the purpose of registration as a qualified nurse (adult).
Why we're great.
97% of our School of Health and Social Care UG graduates are in employment or further study (Graduate Outcomes 2023).
Our focus is on producing nurses with empathy as well as technical skill.
Much of your study is spent in clinical settings, working alongside nurses and other professionals.
Study abroad
Your education extends beyond the university campus. We support you in expanding your education through offering the opportunity to spend a year or a term studying abroad at one of our partner universities. The four-year version of our degree allows you to spend the third year abroad or employed on a placement abroad, while otherwise remaining identical to the three-year course.
Studying abroad allows you to experience other cultures and languages, to broaden your degree socially and academically, and to demonstrate to employers that you are mature, adaptable, and organised.
If you spend a full year abroad you'll only pay 15% of your usual tuition fee to Essex for that year. You won't pay any tuition fees to your host university
Our expert staff
A unique feature of our School is that many of our staff work with local NHS Trusts and other local agencies, which enhances our grasp of the contemporary links between academic research, the major issues of the day and practice.
We specialise in applied, multidisciplinary research that addresses issues of national and international concern to health and social care policy and practice and related fields. We also host the
NIHR Research Design Service for the East of England.
Specialist facilities
The School of Health and Social Care is located at two sites; in the Kimmy Eldridge building at our Colchester campus and in the Gateway Building at our Southend campus.
We have purpose-built nursing skills labs at both our Colchester and Southend campuses to meet the needs of a growing and lively School. View our image gallery and find out more about our
nursing facilities
.
Our dedicated support tutor will help to develop your academic literacy and clinical numeracy skills. This helps you apply these critically important areas of study to real life situations.
Your future
Successful completion of our BSc Nursing (Adult) leads to eligibility to apply for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) on the Professional Register as a “Registered Adult Nurse” allowing you to practise as a nurse in the UK.
Rae is a current third year student on our BSc Nursing (Adult) course and has been nominated for Student Nurse or Midwife of the Year: Clinical Research Award at the Student Nursing Times Awards 2024.
Rae's passion for clinical research has been developed by her course. She said: "I particularly enjoyed the freedom and independence that allowed me to explore my interest in clinical research nursing. I was proactive in seeking out opportunities and also created some of my own. Highlights would be volunteering as a Research Ambassador with Healthwatch Essex and attending the Royal College of Nursing International Research conference in Manchester."
She added: "As part of my current placement, I have been working with the community stroke team to assist in facilitating Early Supported Discharge (ESD). This experience has further emphasised the significance of person-centred care and how patients can benefit greatly when provided with the necessary support in the comfort of their own homes. I have also visited the local Research and Development team to find out about current research being carried out with stroke patients including the OPTIMAS Trial and TICH-3. I am excited to learn more and hopefully inspire more nurses to get involved in clinical research."
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
Our published entry requirements are a guide and we welcome applications from those who have achieved one of the below qualifications with lower grades but meet our GCSE Mathematics and English (or equivalent) requirement.
GCSEs:
Mathematics and English Language C/4. Acceptable alternatives are listed further down this page
A-levels:
BBB - BBC or 120 - 112 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A-levels.
BTEC:
DDM - DMM or 120 - 112 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of the equivalent of 2 full A-levels.
Other UCAS tariff qualifications, and combined qualifications:
120 - 112 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A levels or equivalent. Tariff point offers may be made if you are taking a qualification, or mixture of qualifications, from the list on our
undergraduate application information page
.
IB:
30 - 29 points or three Higher Level certificates with 555-554.
IB Career-related Programme:
We consider combinations of IB Diploma Programme courses with BTECs or other qualifications.
QAA-approved Access to HE Diploma:
6 level 3 credits at Distinction and 39 level 3 credits at Merit.
T-levels:
We consider T-levels on a case-by-case basis, depending on subject studied. The offer for most courses is Distinction overall. Depending on the course applied for there may be additional requirements, which may include a specific grade in the Core.
We also consider vocational level 3 qualifications for entry. If you are taking or have achieved any qualifications that are not listed here, email
Undergraduate Admissions.
GCSE/level 2 requirements
All applicants must have, or be working towards, acceptable level 2 Mathematics, and English qualifications such as GCSE grade C/4 or equivalent.
We accept OFQUAL regulated level 2 maths qualifications, including Functional Skills level 2, Key Skills level 2 or numeracy units taken as part of an Access to HE Diploma.
If you don't need a Student visa and are either a first language English speaker or have a lived in the UK for over three years, we can accept OFQUAL regulated level 2 English qualifications, including Functional Skills level 2, Key Skills level 2 or literacy units taken as part of an Access to HE Diploma.
Additional requirements
This course has additional requirements including pass of an interview, a satisfactory reference, Occupational Health Check and Disclosure and Barring (DBS) check. For more information see the
Health and Social Care Undergraduate page
Contextual Offers:
We are committed to ensuring that all students with the merit and potential to benefit from an Essex education are supported to do so. If you are a home fee paying student residing in the UK you may be eligible for a Contextual Offer of up to two A-level grades, or equivalent, below our standard conditional offer.
Factors we consider:
Applicants from underrepresented groups
Applicants progressing from University of Essex Schools Membership schools/colleges
Applicants who attend a compulsory admissions interview
Applicants who attend an Offer Holder Day at our Colchester or Southend campus
Our
contextual offers policy
outlines additional circumstances and eligibility criteria.
For further information about what a contextual offer may look like for your specific qualification profile, email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
.
If you haven't got the grades you hoped for, have a non-traditional academic background, are a mature student, or have any questions about eligibility for your course, more information can be found on our
undergraduate application information page
or get in touch with our
Undergraduate Admissions Team
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Undergraduate Admissions team at
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
English language requirements for applicants whose first language is not English:
IELTS 7.0 overall with a minimum of 6.5 in writing and 7.0 in all other components, or specified score in another equivalent test that we accept.
Details of English language requirements, including component scores, and the tests we accept can be found
here
If we accept the English component of an international qualification it will be included in the academic levels listed above for the relevant countries.
English language shelf-life
Most English language qualifications have a validity period of 5 years. The validity period of Pearson Test of English, TOEFL and CBSE or CISCE English is 2 years.
If you require a Student visa to study in the UK please see our
immigration webpages
for the latest Home Office guidance on English language qualifications.
Pre-sessional English courses
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Pending English language qualifications
You don’t need to achieve the required level before making your application, but it will be one of the conditions of your offer.
If you cannot find the qualification that you have achieved or are pending, then please email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
.
Additional Notes
If you’re an international student, but do not meet the English language or academic requirements for direct admission to this degree, you could prepare and gain entry through a pathway course. Find out more about opportunities available to you at the
University of Essex International College
Structure
Course structure
Our Nursing programmes consist of three terms per year. This structure adopts a developmental approach to the mastering of nursing skills and development of knowledge and understanding. It has a 50:50 split between theory and practice which means that for 50% of your programme, you undertake clinical practice by working with nurses in a variety of settings (primary and secondary care, public and private sectors, adult and the elderly, acute care and specialist services). Service user-centred care planning emphasises the holistic nature of health and illness. Alongside this experience, you are given the opportunity to rehearse practical skills in a controlled environment further preparing you for working in the practice environment.
As you undertake a significant part of your programme in placement areas we work in partnership with the NHS and the independent health and social care sector across Essex where you will spend your placement hours so that you gain the best clinical learning experiences. Whilst on placement you will have a mentor allocated to you and contact with a member of the academic team linked to that placement. You will work shift patterns whilst in placement equivalent to a 37.5 hour week. This includes early shifts, late shifts, night shifts, weekend and bank holiday working.
Attendance at all parts of this programme is compulsory (as are the modules you study) and must be evidenced in order to register as a nurse.
These carefully selected modules will give you the chance to explore, question, and create powerful ideas. Picked to give you an extensive and in-depth education, they'll equip you with the specialist knowledge, vital transferrable skills, and the confidence to make a genuine difference to the world around you.
We're reactive, we're pioneering, we never stand still, so modules might change from year to year in response to new developments and innovation. Those listed below show how a typical course might look, but more detail on course structure, including details of all optional modules, is available on our
Programme Specification
.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
Year 2
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: CORE
HS182-4-AP
(20 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 02: CORE
HS183-4-AP
(20 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 03: CORE
HS184-4-FY
(60 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 04: CORE
HS185-4-SU
(20 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 01: CORE
HS186-5-SU
(20 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 02: CORE
HS187-5-FY
(60 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 03: CORE
HS188-5-SP
(20 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 04: CORE
HS189-5-SP
(20 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 01: CORE
HS195-6-AP
(20 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 02: CORE
HS196-6-FY
(60 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 03: CORE
HS197-6-AU
(20 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 04: CORE
HS198-6-SU
(20 CREDITS)
Teaching
Nursing students undertake 50% of the programme on placement in clinical practice and 50% undertaking campus-based study. On a typical week when on campus , nursing students will undertake 37.5 hours of study, this is usually made up of 30 hours of on-campus teaching and 7.5 hours of self-directed study. On placement in clinical practice, nursing students will work a shift pattern equivalent to approximately 37.5 hours per week, including early shifts, late shifts, night shifts, weekend and bank holiday working. Nursing students are required to gain experience of the range of hours that nurses work and will be expected to follow the shift patterns worked in a range of clinical departments.
Lectures inform you of the most important topics, with classes allowing you to consolidate your learning through discussion
We work closely in partnership with the NHS and the independent health sector to provide placement opportunities
Modules have their own accompanying webpages on Moodle where you can download relevant readings, power-points, podcasts and YouTube clips, and contribute to online discussions
Assessment
You will be assessed through presentations, coursework and assessments of practical settings
You will also undertake two written exams, one in year one and the other in year two
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£9,250 per year
International fee
£23,200 per year
Fees will increase for each academic year of study.
Home/UK fees and funding information
International fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
Our events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex. We run a number of Open Days throughout the year which enable you to discover what our campus has to offer. 
You have the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
Check out our
Visit Us
pages to find out more information about booking onto one of our events. And if the dates aren’t suitable for you, feel free to
book a campus tour here
.
Applying
Applications for our full-time undergraduate courses should be made through the
Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS)
. Full details on how to apply can be found on the
filling in your UCAS undergraduate application
web page.
Our UK students, and some of our EU and international students, who are still at school or college, can apply through their school. Your school will be able to check and then submit your completed application to UCAS. Our other international applicants (EU or worldwide) or independent applicants in the UK can also apply online through UCAS Apply.
The UCAS code for our University of Essex is
ESSEX E70
. The individual campus codes for our Loughton and Southend Campuses are ‘L' and ‘S' respectively.
You can find further information on how to apply, including information on transferring from another university, applying if you are not currently at a school or college, and applying for readmission on our
How to apply and entry requirements
page.
Offer Holder Days
If you are an undergraduate student residing in the UK who has received an offer to study with us in October 2024, you will receive an email invitation soon to book onto one of our Offer Holder Days. Our Colchester Campus Offer Holder Days run from February to May 2024 on various Wednesdays and Saturdays, and our Southend Campus Offer Holder Days run in April and May 2024 on various Wednesdays and Saturdays. Offer Holder Days provide the opportunity to meet your department, tour our campus and accommodation, and chat to current students. We appreciate that travelling to university events can be expensive, so we are offering an Offer Holder Day Travel Bursary, allowing you to claim up to £150 as reimbursement for travel expenses. For further information about Offer Holder Days, including terms and conditions and eligibility criteria for our Travel Bursary, please visit our
Offer Holder Days
webpage.  Please note, if you have already claimed a travel bursary to attend your interview in person, then you will not be able to claim a second travel bursary to attend an Offer Holder Day.
If you are an overseas offer-holder, you will be invited to attend one of our virtual events. However, you are more than welcome to join us at one of our in-person Offer Holder Days if you are able to - we will let you know in your invite email how you can do this.
Interview
Undergraduate students who apply for our health-related courses are required to pass a compulsory interview before an offer can be made. If you are shortlisted for interview based on your application, you will be invited to interview with us via Microsoft Teams or in person on campus (subject to availability of our in person dates). We use the interview as an opportunity to get to know you, to find out about your ambitions, and assess how prepared you are for the course. It's important for us to be sure that you know what you're signing up for, so we'd expect you've done some research about the course and the associated careers it may lead to. We have some more information about how to demonstrate you have what it takes at the bottom of our
undergraduate page
Visit Southend Campus
Want to live in a central city location, with state-of-the-art facilities at your finger tips? Southend is the perfect environment for living and learning in a close-knit international community.
If you're joining our School of Health and Social Care, East 15 Acting School, or Essex Business School, you may well be studying at our Southend Campus.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree virtual tours allows you to explore our University from the comfort of your home. Check out our
Colchester virtual tour
and
Southend virtual tour
to see accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Related courses
BSc Nursing (Adult) (Including Year Abroad)
Study mode:
Full-time
Location:
Southend Campus
Colchester Campus
Course options:
Year Abroad
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
CHAT TO US
ASK OUR STUDENTS AND STAFF ANYTHING
Read all about it
Get a prospectus
Study at Essex
Find a course
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website