Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FUG00256%2F1%2FBSc-Marketing-Management&auth=pd1Go8JavrPChHyVSqgK6g&profile=_default&rank=172&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Undergraduate
Courses
BSc Marketing Management
Undergraduate Course
BSc Marketing Management
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Course options
3 years
+ Placement Year
+ Year Abroad
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Marketing Management
UCAS code:
NN25
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
3 years
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Essex Business School
What does it take to be an effective manager? How can marketers maximise return on investment?
To succeed in management and marketing, you must be imaginative, innovative and use your initiative to solve business challenges. You must combine originality with the ability to analyse market data and remain focused on results, even in difficult environments.
At
Essex Business School
, where this BSc Management and Marketing course is taught, we encourage you to become an independent thinker and act creatively and strategically to help organisations succeed, whatever their challenge.
This course enables you to combine the study of management with the opportunity to develop marketing expertise. You learn what's involved in managing modern organisations and understand the role of customers, consumers, the service relationship and brand management. We also develop your practical skills in communication, data analysis and critical thinking.
You explore subjects such as:
digital marketing and social media
marketing management
consumer behaviour
brand management
business strategy
organisational behaviour
international business environment
In year one, you benefit from a general business education, introducing you to accounting and finance, as well as management and marketing, giving you the flexibility to follow a range of careers after you graduate.
In your final year, you have the opportunity to put your knowledge into practice by completing an in-depth, independent research project or dissertation which can focus on either management or marketing or combine elements from both at your preference. This will give you the chance to further develop vital employability skills in areas of research, time management and critical thinking as well as offering you the opportunity to explore what interests you.
Essex Business School attracts students and academics from all over the world. We are committed to ethical and sustainable business and are a signatory of the
UN Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME)
. By studying with us, you gain more than the foundations for a successful career in marketing management; you are part of a movement that seeks to make organisations better places to do business.
BSc Management and Marketing can also be taken with an optional study abroad or placement year where you can add even more value to your CV through work or international experience.
Professional accreditation
Accredited by The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) for the purpose of gaining CIM qualifications through the Graduate Gateway.
Why we're great.
Placement opportunities enable you to develop your practical business skills by working for an external organisation.
We are ranked in the Top 150 for Business and Economics in THE World University Rankings by Subject 2023.
We embed transferable employability skills in analysis, critical thinking, presentation and communication across all modules.
Study abroad
The four-year version of this course enables you to study abroad during your third year. In all other areas, this version of the course remains identical to the standard three-year variant.
You can
study abroad
with one of our exchange partners in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Latin America, the Middle East, Hong Kong and Japan. In doing so, you experience other cultures and languages, meet new people, and gain intercultural skills that are sought-after by employers.
Placement year
A placement year provides an alternative option, enabling you to develop your practical business skills by working for an external organisation. During your time away from study, you can build key industry contacts that will be invaluable as you progress in your career.
The
Student Development Team
can offer bespoke support throughout the process of researching, applying and interviewing for placements. However, it is your responsibility to apply, prepare for and secure your own role. In recent years, our students have gained placements with organisations such as BMW, Samsung and
Greater Anglia.
Our expert staff
You are taught by a highly qualified, enthusiastic team of academics and relevant business practitioners with wide-ranging research interests. They use their research examples in your lectures and seminars so you learn about the latest innovations and contemporary themes affecting business today.
Our
staff
specialise in areas including:
Business Ethics
Cultural Production
Corporate Marketing and Corporate Communication
Social Media Influencers
Sustainable Marketing and Consumer Behaviour
Technology and Innovation
Gender and LGBT inequality in the workplace
Digital innovation
Technology in customer engagement and experience
Drawing on his industry experience
Dr Erik Jacobi
, Lecturer in Management and Marketing applies his research in areas such as market research and consumer insights in strategy development, brand activism and consumer resistance, and neuromarketing, to directly inform your studies in marketing and business management.
In collaboration with our Innovation Centre, he advises start-ups and SMEs develop their brand identities and marketing strategies.
Specialist facilities
Our BSc Management and Marketing is based at our
Colchester Campus
.
In our landmark Essex Business School building - the first zero carbon business school in the UK - you'll see our sustainable approach to business first-hand. Set around a lush winter garden, which gives the building its own micro-climate, are a wealth of teaching and study zones.
Our new building provides you with superb
facilities
.
a state-of-the-art trading floor with Bloomberg Financial Market Labs, where you'll hands-on experience of using live business data
modern lecture theatres with ‘listen again' recording to aid your study
study pods and innovation booths for group working
networking opportunities with visiting businesses
a café and adjacent foyer to enjoy on-site fresh food and drink
study skills
workshops and advice
Our business school is located on the University's
Knowledge Gateway
, featuring the Parkside Office Village. Here, student entrepreneurs can access start-up space amongst a group of innovative SMEs, who can also provide valuable opportunities for business networking, placements and internships.
The
Students' Union Rebel Student Media
, based in the Silberrad Student Centre, is home to a collection of sate of the art computers installed with the latest editing software, including: Adobe InDesign and Photoshop; Premiere Pro, After Effects and loads more. You can also access Final Cut Pro, iMovie and Garageband. The suite has a similar feel to the offices of modern marketing agencies and provides you with free-to-use technology that can greatly enhance your assignments.
Your future
The dual disciplines of management and marketing are highly sought after by many graduate employers, therefore, we embed a series of core and specific skills into our undergraduate curriculum for BSc Management and Marketing to ensure that our graduates are suited to careers in marketing, management and leadership roles.
All of our taught modules embed elements of our
skills map
which emulate the skills which are required by employers of business and marketing graduates, these generally include:
Academic and cognitive skills
Research skills
Technology skills
Communication skills
Data analysis skills
Soft skills
We embed a
structured approach to student development and skills support
throughout the curriculum and through additional support from the
Essex Business School Learning Team
.
Our students have gone on to become business analysts, marketing managers, account managers and management trainees, with
recent graduate destinations
including:
Brand Manager at
Ringnes AS, part of the Carlsberg Group
– the largest Norwegian brewer
Relationship Manager at
Footprint Digital
– a fast-growing digital marketing agency
Buyer at the
John Lewis Partnership
– the high-end department chain store
Affiliate Marketing Analyst at
KidStart
– a save as you shop app for parents and children
Head of Analytics, Insight and Reporting at
Commercial Risk Solutions, RSA
- global insurance and risk management experts
Our
marketing
and
management
graduates enjoy successful careers in their fields.
Additional to the skills development offered by Essex Business School, BSc Management and Marketing students can also take advantage of the
University of Essex Careers Service
which focuses in particular on supporting the development of
undergraduate employability
, including careers fairs, career mentoring, skills development, careers advice and guidance, placement year support, job opportunities, start-up support and more.
One of the reasons I chose to study BSc Management and Marketing because it was a combined degree course. This has allowed me to gain knowledge in both the management and marketing fields of business. I was also impressed by the range of modules there was to choose from in third year that were very interesting as there was a mix of both management and marketing topics, meaning you could choose to go down either route or study a combination of both.
Leila Flack
, BSc Management and Marketing, 2023
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
GCSE:
Mathematics C/4.
A-levels:
BBB - BBC or 120 - 112 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A-levels.
BTEC:
DDM - DMM or 120 - 112 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of the equivalent of 2 full A-levels. The acceptability of BTECs is dependent on subject studied and optional units taken - email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
for advice.
Combined qualifications on the UCAS tariff:
120 - 112 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A levels or equivalent. Tariff point offers may be made if you are taking a qualification, or mixture of qualifications, from the list on our
undergraduate application information page.
IB:
30 - 29 points or three Higher Level certificates with 555-554. Our Maths requirement can be met with either: 4 in Standard level Maths; 3 in Higher level Maths; or 4 in IB Middle Years Maths.
IB Career-related Programme:
We consider combinations of IB Diploma Programme courses with BTECs or other qualifications. Advice on acceptability can be provided, email
Undergraduate Admissions.
QAA-approved Access to HE Diploma:
6 level 3 credits at Distinction and 39 level 3 credits at Merit, depending on subject studied - advice on acceptability can be provided, email
Undergraduate Admissions.
T-levels:
We consider T-levels on a case-by-case basis, depending on subject studied. The offer for most courses is Distinction overall. Depending on the course applied for there may be additional requirements, which may include a specific grade in the Core.
Contextual Offers:
We are committed to ensuring that all students with the merit and potential to benefit from an Essex education are supported to do so. If you are a home fee paying student residing in the UK you may be eligible for a Contextual Offer of up to two A-level grades, or equivalent, below our standard conditional offer.
Factors we consider:
Applicants from underrepresented groups
Applicants progressing from University of Essex Schools Membership schools/colleges
Applicants who attend a compulsory admissions interview
Applicants who attend an Offer Holder Day at our Colchester or Southend campus
Our
contextual offers policy
outlines additional circumstances and eligibility criteria.
For further information about what a contextual offer may look like for your specific qualification profile, email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
.
If you haven't got the grades you hoped for, have a non-traditional academic background, are a mature student, or have any questions about eligibility for your course, more information can be found on our
undergraduate application information page
or get in touch with our
Undergraduate Admissions Team.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Undergraduate Admissions team at
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
English language requirements for applicants whose first language is not English:
IELTS 6.0 overall, or specified score in another equivalent test that we accept.
Details of English language requirements, including component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
If we accept the English component of an international qualification it will be included in the academic levels listed above for the relevant countries.
English language shelf-life
Most English language qualifications have a validity period of 5 years. The validity period of Pearson Test of English, TOEFL and CBSE or CISCE English is 2 years.
If you require a Student visa to study in the UK please see our
immigration webpages
for the latest Home Office guidance on English language qualifications.
Pre-sessional English courses
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Pending English language qualifications
You don’t need to achieve the required level before making your application, but it will be one of the conditions of your offer.
If you cannot find the qualification that you have achieved or are pending, then please email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
.
Requirements for second and final year entry
Different requirements apply for second and final year entry, and specified component grades are also required for applicants who require a visa to study in the UK. Details of English language requirements, including UK Visas and Immigration minimum component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
Additional Notes
If you’re an international student, but do not meet the English language or academic requirements for direct admission to this degree, you could prepare and gain entry through a pathway course. Find out more about opportunities available to you at the
University of Essex International College
Structure
Course structure
This course allows you to specialise in the areas of both business management and marketing, as well as providing a more broad overview of other important topics. In the first year our current students cover the fundamentals that every business manager needs to know and be introduced to the specialisation of marketing. However, we are planning some changes to our first year and we'll be tailoring it more closely to your chosen course.
In second and final year your compulsory modules will provide a deep understanding of management and marketing, whilst your optional modules will allow you to follow these themes further or to explore other areas.
We offer a flexible course structure with a mixture of core/compulsory modules, and optional modules chosen from lists. Please be aware that we are planning changes to our first year to make it more relevant to your chosen course.
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The following modules are based on the current course structure and may change in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
Year 2
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Introduction to Management
(15 CREDITS)
Introduction to Management is a broad-ranging module intended to provide a foundation in the most significant issues in management theory and practice, as well as to prepare you for related modules in subsequent years of your degree course.

Because theoretical explanations – i.e., academic interpretations of what managers do and even of what they say they do – and what managers actually do in real organisations on a day-to-day basis may differ, we will also draw out some of the connections and dis-junctures between management theory and management practice. Our teaching also emphasises the ethics of managing and how to balance the bottom line of the business with the organisation's wider responsibilities to society and other stakeholders.
View Introduction to Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Introduction to Marketing
(15 CREDITS)
A key module across all our Business, Management, and Marketing courses Introduction to Marketing sets out the fundamental principles of marketing and covers the core elements of marketing management. The module explores marketing planning; the segmentation, targeting and positioning (STP) process; and the extended marketing mix (product, price, promotion, place, people, process, and physical environment). The module aims to help students develop marketing knowledge and skills that are important for future modules as well as the workplace.
View Introduction to Marketing on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Introduction to Accounting I
(15 CREDITS)
This module introduces financial accounting and basic principles and techniques needed to analyse and interpret financial statements. Although the module is intended as an introduction for students majoring in accounting it will also benefit students who wish to gain some insight into the practices of accounting.
You’ll look at the nature and role of accounting and consider who uses accounting information and for what purposes. You’ll discuss the contents of annual reports, especially the narrative sections, and the qualitative characteristics of accounting information. Finally, the module will be concerned with key elements and the format of financial statements. You’ll earn to prepare company financial statements using trial balance and cover the techniques that can be used to analyse and interpret financial statements.
View Introduction to Accounting I on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Introduction to Accounting II
(15 CREDITS)
This module is intended for students majoring in accounting and those who have a keen interest in gaining an understanding of elementary financial accounting. Learn the basic principles and techniques for preparing and constructing a set of comprehensive financial statements. 
The module commences with an introduction to double-entry booking keeping and accounting equations that govern the recording of business transactions. You’ll then discuss the recognition and measurement principles for accounting for some key items in financial statements, including inventory, accruals, prepayments, long-term assets, and long-term finance, using International Financial Reporting Standards as reference. Finally, the preparation of financial statements from the trial balance for various types of entities, incorporating a variety of simple adjustments.
View Introduction to Accounting II on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Quantitative Methods and Finance
(15 CREDITS)
Quantitative Methods and Finance is an introduction to the subject of quantitative methods and their applications in finance, accounting and management. The module is designed to provide a sound foundation for your future studies in finance, accounting or management. The topics covered include maths revision, the time value of money, rates of change (calculus), statistics, probability distributions and simple regression.
View Quantitative Methods and Finance on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Understanding Value and Values
(15 CREDITS)
In keeping with Essex Business School's research and intellectual strengths and interests in Business and Society, the overall aims are that students will learn about and critically reflect on the past, present, and futures of values, value and value creation. It will explore themes of what is considered "valuable" and why, along with different models of value creation. The latter will, of course, acknowledge the traditional business school focus on the private sector but move beyond this to include the public and third sectors as well as the social economy and frameworks for de-growth necessitated by the Climate Emergency
Be well prepared for the world of work, management, and leadership in the 21st century.
This module has been designed to enable students to integrate their subject knowledge with an understanding of sustainable development, acquiring the skills and competencies essential for addressing the urgent sustainability challenges of the 21st century.
View Understanding Value and Values on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: COMPULSORY
Understanding Organisational Management
(15 CREDITS)
Drawing on both historical and contemporary sources, this module introduces you to a range of approaches to, and ways of thinking about, organisations and their management.

You’ll gain a secure conceptual, theoretical, and discursive understanding of the academic foundations of the field vital for academic progression.

Talking both an historical and comparative approach The first five weeks of the module will introduce a series of core concepts, and styles of organising, that constitute the established landscape against which contemporary management and organisation studies take place.
The second five weeks will be more fluid in design and delivery. It will draw upon faculty research interests and expertise, as well as topical debates within the field and beyond. 
Attention will be paid, however, to the contemporary organisational challenges posed by issues including the climate emergency, the persistence of structural inequalities within organisations, and the rise of alternative organisational forms and practices.
View Understanding Organisational Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 08: COMPULSORY
Professional and Academic Development (Management and Marketing)
(15 CREDITS)
A key module across all our Business Management and Marketing coursers; Professional and Academic Development (Management and Marketing) is a foundation in core academic skill requirements with the intention of improving the standard of work across all first-year modules. The module will also enable you to begin to focus on career planning and employability skills and establishing a career path. In addition, this module ensures all students have adequate access to their personal tutor on a regular basis.
The primary aim of this module is to deliver a range of study skills and introduce professional development at the start of Essex Business School students’ undergraduate programmes.
View Professional and Academic Development (Management and Marketing) on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Management Accounting I
(15 CREDITS)
Management accounting enables you to provide three key areas of information to any business: costing, decision-making, and planning and control. In this module you focus on costing, but also see how this area overlaps with the other two, as all three areas always interact. You also develop your knowledge and understanding of management accounting and the context in which it operates.
View Management Accounting I on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Organisational Behaviour
(15 CREDITS)
This module builds on your understanding of management, work and organisation, exploring how these concepts have evolved over time and how they are understood now. You look at how management theory relates to organisational practice, examine the social dynamics underpinning the field of organisation studies and analyse some of the most important themes affecting management today.
View Organisational Behaviour on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
International Business Environment
(15 CREDITS)
Gain a more advanced understanding of the international context which helps to shape the strategies and operations of organisations, and explore some of the current issues and challenges facing organisations within the international business environment. In particular, you focus on international political economy, covering the major economic systems in the world, and tracing the historical evolution of the global order.
View International Business Environment on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Marketing Management
(15 CREDITS)
This module outlines the stages involved in creating a marketing plan and explains the tools and concepts used by marketing managers when developing strategies. To apply your learning, you undertake a consultancy project for a real-world business in response to a marketing brief. You demonstrate your grasp of segmentation, targeting and positioning, as well as a range of marketing communications tools.
View Marketing Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Digital Marketing and Social Media
(15 CREDITS)
Marketing practices have dramatically changed with the rise of social media and new technological developments in devices, platforms, and applications. The digital environment presents new opportunities and challenges for marketers. Through a combination of theory, case studies, best practice examples, current news items, and assignments, you learn how the internet is now integrated into all the marketing functions and activities of modern businesses.
View Digital Marketing and Social Media on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Business Strategy
(15 CREDITS)
The business world is increasingly global, complex and fast changing. While some organisations are consistently successful over a long period of time, many fail and are forgotten forever. In theory it should become consecutively easier to imitate the strategies of winning companies and dissipate their profits. In practice, however, only a few firms become long-term leaders. In this course, you explore why that is.
View Business Strategy on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: COMPULSORY
Research Methods in Management and Marketing
(15 CREDITS)
This module introduces quantitative and qualitative methods used in management and marketing research and demonstrates how they are applied in different settings. We explore the methodological, ethical and practical elements of designing business research and learn how to gather, review and analyse data from a variety of sources. You develop your presentation skills and learn how to plan, organise, manage and share research projects.
View Research Methods in Management and Marketing on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 08: COMPULSORY
Introduction to Consumer Behaviour
(15 CREDITS)
This module introduces you to foundational theories and concepts in consumer behaviour, while also explaining their practical application for marketing managers in terms of understanding how consumers behave.

You will have the opportunity to apply consumer behaviour models as analytical tools to inform strategic decision making in relation to marketing intelligence.
View Introduction to Consumer Behaviour on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 09: COMPULSORY
Successful Futures
(0 CREDITS)
This module links subject understanding to employability, ensuring you’re prepared to take advantage of graduate opportunities at the point they’re advertised. You gain an understanding of the graduate labour market and recruitment processes, as well as timelines for recruitment and interview and assessment centre techniques.  You also learn about options for postgraduate study.
View Successful Futures on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 10: COMPULSORY
Student Success Tutorial
(0 CREDITS)
This compulsory module equips you with effective study practices to excel in your second year at Essex Business School.  It gives your guidance on how to use feedback effectively to improve and develop your academic skills and improve your performance. It provides the opportunity to create an action plan for your personal and professional development whilst at university.
View Student Success Tutorial on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Critical Marketing Perspectives
(15 CREDITS)
Marketing is part of our everyday lives, embedded into all spheres of society.  Marketing techniques are not only used by corporations to promote their products and services. Governments, charities, social movements and protest groups also use these techniques to seek to shape our norms, lifestyles and culture.  This module explores a range of contemporary marketing discourses and critically examines their impact on marketing practices and on society.
This module has been designed to enable students to integrate their subject knowledge with an understanding of sustainable development, acquiring the skills and competencies essential for addressing the urgent sustainability challenges of the 21st century.
View Critical Marketing Perspectives on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Business Ethics
(15 CREDITS)
This module builds on your understanding of management and organisation by considering the ethics of business activity. You are introduced to the origins, practice and theory of business ethics and corporate social responsibility (CSR). You consider a range of perspectives and use business literature to critically examine organisational ethics and analyse its constraints.
This module has been designed to enable students to integrate their subject knowledge with an understanding of sustainable development, acquiring the skills and competencies essential for addressing the urgent sustainability challenges of the 21st century.
View Business Ethics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Brand Management
(15 CREDITS)
Explore the fascinating world of brands in our contemporary cultures, and investigate the consequences for contemporary marketing practices and for organisational practices more generally. You examine the notion of brand identity, brand image, the issues of brand development and extension, and the consumption of brands. You are also introduced to managerial and marketing issues central to brand management.
View Brand Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY WITH OPTIONS
BE938-6-AP or BE940-6-FY or BE939-6-FY or BE947-6-FY or BE944-6-FY
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 05: OPTIONAL
Option(s) from list or outside option
(45 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 06: OPTIONAL
Management option(s) from list
(15 CREDITS)
Placement
On a placement year you gain relevant work experience within an external business or organisation, giving you a competitive edge in the graduate job market and providing you with key contacts within the industry. The rest of your course remains identical to the three-year degree.
Year abroad
On your year abroad, you have the opportunity to experience other cultures and languages, to broaden your degree socially and academically, and to demonstrate to employers that you are mature, adaptable, and organised. The rest of your course remains identical to the three-year degree.
Teaching
Undergraduate students at the Department of Essex Business School typically have 12 hours of teaching time per week.
Teaching includes a combination of lectures, seminars and computer-based lab sessions
Modules delivered by experts in the field as well as guest speakers
Contribute and interact in lectures through the use of smart technology
Lecture presentations and notes are uploaded online beforehand to help you prepare in advance
Complete your final-year project in consultation with a personal supervisor
Assessment
Assessed through traditional methods of end-of-year exams and multiple choice questions in class tests and essays
Plus more innovative and creative assessments include laboratory work, poster presentations, real-business case problems and group presentations
Your first year marks do not count towards your final degree
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£9,250 per year
International fee
£21,525 per year
Fees will increase for each academic year of study.
Home/UK fees and funding information
International fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
Our events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex. We run a number of Open Days throughout the year which enable you to discover what our campus has to offer. 
You have the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
Check out our
Visit Us
pages to find out more information about booking onto one of our events. And if the dates aren’t suitable for you, feel free to
book a campus tour here
.
Applying
Applications for our full-time undergraduate courses should be made through the
Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS)
. Full details on how to apply can be found on the
filling in your UCAS undergraduate application
web page.
Our UK students, and some of our EU and international students, who are still at school or college, can apply through their school. Your school will be able to check and then submit your completed application to UCAS. Our other international applicants (EU or worldwide) or independent applicants in the UK can also apply online through UCAS Apply.
The UCAS code for our University of Essex is
ESSEX E70
. The individual campus codes for our Loughton and Southend Campuses are 'L' and 'S' respectively.
For information on transferring from another university, applying when you are not at school or college, and applying for readmission, please see
How to apply and entry requirements
Offer Holder Days
If you receive an undergraduate offer to study with us in October 2024 and live in the UK, you will receive an email invitation to book onto one of our Offer Holder Days. Our Colchester Campus Offer Holder Days run from February to May 2024 on various Wednesdays and Saturdays, and our Southend Campus events run in April and May. These events provide the opportunity to meet your department, tour our campus and accommodation, and chat to current students. To support your attendance, we are offering a travel bursary, allowing you to claim up to £150 as reimbursement for travel expenses. For further information about Offer Holder Days, including terms and conditions and eligibility criteria for our travel bursary, please visit our
webpage.
If you are an overseas offer-holder, you will be invited to attend one of our virtual events. However, you are more than welcome to join us at one of our in-person Offer Holder Days if you are able to - we will let you know in your invite email how you can do this.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree virtual tours allows you to explore our University from the comfort of your home. Check out our
Colchester virtual tour
and
Southend virtual tour
to see accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Related courses
BSc Marketing Management (Including Foundation Year)
Study mode:
Full-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
CHAT TO US
ASK OUR STUDENTS AND STAFF ANYTHING
Read all about it
Get a prospectus
Study at Essex
Find a course
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website