Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FUG00039%2F3%2FBSc-Biomedical-Science&auth=N5nZqvs%2Bav2kXJbgEoC1dg&profile=_default&rank=134&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Undergraduate
Courses
BSc Biomedical Science
Undergraduate Course
BSc Applied Biomedical Science
(NHS placement)
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Course options
4 years
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Applied Biomedical Science (NHS placement)
UCAS code:
B991
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
4 years
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Life Sciences (School of)
From cancer-screening to blood transfusions, from infections to genetic diseases, biomedical scientists research the causes and diagnosis of diseases and the effectiveness of the medicines that cure them. You apply the concepts of biochemistry and cell biology to the study of health and disease in the human body. Our multidisciplinary approach means you learn skills that are at the forefront of advances in medical research.
We are the top university in the country for providing NHS placements as part of our applied biomedical science course. You will gain fast-track career progression within the NHS by studying with us. At Essex, our research focuses on genetic diseases, infection and immunity, and age-associated conditions such as cancer.
On our BSc Biomedical Science, you study areas including:
The human immune system
Pathogenic and non-pathogenic bacteria
Haematology and blood transfusion
Cell pathology
Mechanisms of neurological diseases
You discover the molecular basis of cellular dysfunctions, and describe modern strategies to diagnose and treat them.
Visit our
biomedical science subject page
for more information and content.
Covid-19 vaccinations
As you may be aware, the UK Government has revoked legislation that requires all health and social care staff working in sites regulated by the Care Quality Commission (CQC) in England to be fully vaccinated against Covid-19. Whilst vaccination is not essential, we encourage our applicants and students to be fully vaccinated.
Find out more
about what this means for applicants to this course.
Professional accreditation
Accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS).
Why we're great.
We are the top university in the country for providing NHS placements as part of our applied biomedical science course.
We provide great support for our students through our collaboration with many hospitals such as Addenbrookes, Bedford, Broomfield, Ipswich, as well as Public Health England, Norwich, Kent and many others. A hospital placement gives you the opportunity to spend a year working in an NHS lab.
We are ranked 2nd in the UK for biosciences (The Mail University Guide 2025) and 2nd for anatomy, physiology and pathology for overall positivity score (National Student Survey 2024, English broad-discipline higher education institutions).
Placement year
You could spend your third year on a placement year with the NHS in an IBMS-approved lab. You complete a portfolio of assessed work, which results in HCPC registration after completion of the course. This provides you with hands-on experience using specialised equipment and techniques which are in demand from employers, and is a great route into work in an NHS hospital.
If you complete a placement year you'll only pay 20% of your usual tuition fee to Essex for that year.
All BSc Biomedical Science students have the opportunity to learn about clinical biochemistry, cellular pathology, medical microbiology, and haematology and transfusion science. This time spent with NHS professionals improves your laboratory skills and helps you to develop an understanding of career paths in this sector. You will have the opportunity to do your final-year project while on placement supervised by highly experienced NHS professionals.
Many students choose to study biomedical science because they want to work in a biomedical sciences lab. Although there are plenty of private labs who can hire graduates, the NHS is by far the largest employer of biomedical scientists in the UK. To work full-time in an NHS lab, you will require both accreditation from the IBMS and NHS lab experience.
Our biomedical sciences courses are accredited, and we will provide you with a huge range of placement options (at around 40 different partner labs).
If you graduate without the addition of the placement year that we offer, you will need to make up that experience before you can work as a fully qualified biomedical scientist in the NHS. It is therefore a really important component and internationally recognised.
There are 44 universities in the UK that offer work-based placements, including the University of Essex. Between 2020-2022, the number of students who went on placement from all of these universities was 181, 180 and 176 respectively. This means that Essex's contribution was 18% (32/181) in 2020, 19% (34/180) in 2021 and 18% (31/176) in 2022 (IBMS 2023). As a result, we are the largest contributor of biomedical science students on placement in the country.
Our expert staff
As one of the largest departments at our University, we offer a lively, friendly and supportive environment with research-led study and high quality teaching. You will learn from and work alongside our expert staff.
Our research covers a wide spectrum of biology – from the cell right through to communities and ecosystems.
Key academic staff
for this course includes
Dr Selwa Alsam
, the '
Champion of Biomedical Science in East Anglia
', who is researching hospital-related infections and human microbial diseases including MRSA, wound infections and infection control. Dr Alsam is also the course director for BSc Biomedical Science.
The University of Essex has a
Women's Network
to support female staff and students, and our School was awarded the
Athena Swan Silver Award
in October 2020, which reflects the work carried out by staff in our School to continue to improve equality, including a mentorship scheme, support for postdoctoral research staff, and financial help towards childcare costs for academics who wish to attend conferences.
Specialist facilities
Recent spending by our University has allowed for major refurbishment and expansion of our School of Life Sciences, including:
Work in an open and friendly department, with shared staff-student social spaces
Conduct your final-year research alongside academics and PhD students in shared labs
State-of-the-art
research facilities
, from protein purification, to cell culture and imaging, to molecular modelling
Receive training in your first year on using the Oxford Nanopore MinION, a portable handheld device that can sequence genomes in real time
Teaching facilities
including new undergraduate laboratories
Your future
You graduate ready to move into a wide variety of industrial and public sector
careers
, from the NHS to pharmaceuticals, research, health and safety, teaching.
Our students have gone on to work in a number of laboratory-based roles in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, and in hospitals, clinics and healthcare companies. Others have gone on to work in sales, publishing and management, while others still have chosen to enhance their career opportunities by studying for
MSc or PhD degrees
.
Our BSc Biomedical Science course also provides the ideal background for entry onto postgraduate medicine programmes. We have an established scheme for helping students prepare their applications and an excellent success rate with respect to students gaining places at medical schools throughout the country.
Other recent graduate destinations include:
Andrologist
Perfusionist
Studying medicine
Studying MSc or PhD
Working in NHS Hospitals at Cambridge, Chelmsford, Colchester, PHE in Colindale, Basildon, London, Bury St Edmunds, Kent, Ipswich, Norwich, Peterborough and Romford
We also work with our University's
Student Development Team
to help you find out about further work experience, internships, placements, and voluntary opportunities.
For more information on careers in Biochemistry and Biomedicine, visit the websites of the
Biochemical Society
and the
Institute of Biomedical Science
.
"The best part of my course was the support I received from Essex in completing my placement year, enabling me to jump straight into work after graduating. I have become increasingly grateful for the quality of modules on offer as each has proven to be extremely useful and relevant in the workplace. I am a molecular pathology and genetics biomedical scientist, where my main role is to perform serological and PCR techniques for the detection, confirmation and sequencing of infectious pathogens."
Vladislava Kutukova, BSc Biomedical Science, 2020
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
GCSE:
Mathematics C/4.
A-levels:
BBB - BBC or 120 - 112 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A-levels, including B in Chemistry or Biology and a second science or Mathematics. Psychology, Statistics, Physics, Applied Science, Human Biology, Geography, PE and Sociology (on a case by case basis) are all acceptable as second science A-levels.
BTEC:
DDM - DMM or 120 - 112 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of the equivalent of 2 full A-levels. The acceptability of BTECs is dependent on subject studied and optional units taken - email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
for advice.
Combined qualifications on the UCAS tariff:
120 - 112 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 2 full A levels or equivalent including B in Chemistry or Biology and a second science or Mathematics. Tariff point offers may be made if you are taking a qualification, or mixture of qualifications, from the list on our
undergraduate application information page.
IB:
30 - 29 points or three Higher Level certificates with 555-554. Either must include Higher Level Chemistry or Biology and a second science or Mathematics grade 5. Computer Science, Design Technology, Physics, Sport, exercise and Health Science at Higher Level are all acceptable as second science subjects. Our GCSE Maths requirement can be met with either: 4 in Standard level Maths; 3 in Higher level Maths; or 4 in IB Middle Years Maths.
IB Career-related Programme:
We consider combinations of IB Diploma Programme courses with BTECs or other qualifications. Advice on acceptability can be provided, email
Undergraduate Admissions.
QAA-approved Access to HE Diploma:
6 level 3 credits at Distinction and 39 level 3 credits at Merit, depending on subject studied - advice on acceptability can be provided, email
Undergraduate Admissions.
T-levels:
For our Life Sciences courses we can consider T-levels taken in Science on a case-by-case basis. The offer for most courses is Distinction overall. Depending on the course applied for there may be additional requirements, which may include a specific grade in the Core. We cannot accept the T-levels in Health or Healthcare Science.
Contextual Offers:
We are committed to ensuring that all students with the merit and potential to benefit from an Essex education are supported to do so. If you are a home fee paying student residing in the UK you may be eligible for a Contextual Offer of up to two A-level grades, or equivalent, below our standard conditional offer.
Factors we consider:
Applicants from underrepresented groups
Applicants progressing from University of Essex Schools Membership schools/colleges
Applicants who attend a compulsory admissions interview
Applicants who attend an Offer Holder Day at our Colchester or Southend campus
Our
contextual offers policy
outlines additional circumstances and eligibility criteria.
For further information about what a contextual offer may look like for your specific qualification profile, email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
.
If you haven't got the grades you hoped for, have a non-traditional academic background, are a mature student, or have any questions about eligibility for your course, more information can be found on our
undergraduate application information page
or get in touch with our
Undergraduate Admissions Team.
Additional requirements:
A satisfactory basic Disclosure and Barring System (DBS) check will be required prior to starting any placement(s) for this course,  This will be organised by the University. Please contact our
DBS team
if you have any questions relating to this.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Undergraduate Admissions team at
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
English language requirements for applicants whose first language is not English:
IELTS 6.0 overall, or specified score in another equivalent test that we accept.
Details of English language requirements, including UK Visas and Immigration minimum component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
If we accept the English component of an international qualification then it will be included in the information given about the academic levels listed above for the relevant countries.
Please note that date restrictions may apply to some English language qualifications.
If you are an international student requiring a Student visa to study in the UK please see our
immigration webpages
for the latest Home Office guidance on English language qualifications.
What if my IELTS does not meet your requirements?
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Do I need to have achieved an acceptable English language qualification before I apply?
You don’t need to achieve the required level before making your application, but it will be one of the conditions of your offer.
What if the English language qualification I hold, or am taking, is not listed?
If you cannot find the qualification that you have achieved or are pending, then please contact Admissions on
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
for advice.
What are the requirements for second and final year entry?
Different requirements apply for second and final year entry, and specified component grades are also required for applicants who require a visa to study in the UK. Details of English language requirements, including UK Visas and Immigration minimum component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
Additional Notes
If you’re an international student, but do not meet the English language or academic requirements for direct admission to this degree, you could prepare and gain entry through a pathway course. Find out more about opportunities available to you at the
University of Essex International College
Structure
Course structure
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The following modules are based on the current course structure and may change in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
Year 2
Year Away
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Quantitative methods for Life Sciences
(15 CREDITS)
Develop your skillset and boost your CV. This module prepares you for the coursework, laboratory practicals and research projects that you will encounter during undergraduate study. Get to know referencing systems and learn how to effectively communicate scientific information. Use scientific units and simple algebra and demonstrate understanding of logarithms, exponentials, geometry and elementary calculus. Learn how to design experiments, handle data and display, interpret and analyse basic statistics.
Teaching and learning will be through a mixture of lectures, classes, practicals and tutorials, with an emphasis on developing the key transferable skills needed for a career in biosciences.
View Quantitative methods for Life Sciences on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Molecular Cell Biology
(15 CREDITS)
The building blocks of life, plants and animals depend on the actions of individual cells. Investigate the biochemical characteristics of the small molecules and large macromolecules that allow cells to function. You examine the origins of life, cell structure and function, energy transductions, synthesis of molecules, and the eukaryotic cell cycle.
View Molecular Cell Biology on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Microbiology
(15 CREDITS)
Microbes are essential for life, and they connect the health of humans, other animals and ecosystems. They help us digest our food, provide us with vitamins and are contribute to our health and wellbeing. Marine microbes provide about one-third of the oxygen we breath. And, by cleaning up pollutants and synthesising valuable products such as antibiotics, microbes are essential for the delivery of the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals. On the other hand, some microbes cause devastating diseases. Despite major advances in treatment and prevention, incidences of infectious disease continue to rise. You will learn about the vast diversity and evolution of these mostly beneficial microbes and learn about the pathogenicity of the harmful ones. You will examine how different viruses and bacteria invade, interact and replicate within their hosts. A series of four practical sessions in our new teaching laboratory will give you hands-on experience of growing, observing, purifying, counting and even killing microbes. This will provide you with sought-after skills, such as aseptic technique, serial dilution and data analysis.
View Microbiology on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Biochemistry of Macromolecules
(15 CREDITS)
Explore the building blocks of life. From the proteins that make up our genetic code to the lipids that envelope our cells, explore the structure, function and biological role of the major macromolecules.

You investigate the basic principles of protein structural bioinformatics and protein structural evolution, examine how ligand-binding equilibria may form the basis of diverse biological phenomena, learn the structure and properties of monosaccharides and polysaccharides and review the major types of lipids.

This module develops key skills in analysis and interpretation of data, biochemical methodology and calculation of biochemical parameters.
View Biochemistry of Macromolecules on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: CORE
Genetics and Evolution
(15 CREDITS)
Why do we all look different? Are some illnesses hereditary? Are animals born ready-suited to their environment? From the early theories of Mendel to modern studies in molecular genetics, you explore how scientists have answered these questions over the last 150 years.

Examine how the structure and function of DNA allows genetic material to be expressed, replicated and inherited, and consider how genetic variation leads to adaptive evolution.  From developing new technologies in gene cloning to the applications for modern medicine, you explore how geneticists are building on the earlier achievements in this fundamentally important field to enhance our understanding of life on earth.
View Genetics and Evolution on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: CORE
General and Organic Chemistry
(15 CREDITS)
Many recent advances in biological research have been born from an increased understanding of the molecules involved in systems and processes. But what do things look like beyond molecular level?<br><br>Study how molecules are formed from individual atoms, and how the properties of these constituent atoms influence molecular structure and reactivity. Examine the fundamental concepts of chemical bonding, electronegativity, acidity, basicity, hydrogen bonding and review the common organic functional groups and different types of isomerism.
View General and Organic Chemistry on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: CORE
Anatomy and Physiology
(15 CREDITS)
Explore the anatomical components and major systems of the human body. In this module you will build your vocabulary of the key terminology of anatomy and physiology, as well as learn the structure and functions of these major body systems and how the body is controlled by the nervous and endocrine systems.
View Anatomy and Physiology on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 08: COMPULSORY
Transferable Skills in Life Sciences
(15 CREDITS)
You will develop your transferable skills in scientific writing (including referencing and avoiding plagiarism), teamwork and communication through oral presentations, study and research skills (including essay writing, lecture note taking, use of library and databases). Teaching and learning will be through a mixture of lectures, classes, and tutorials. The emphasis will be on small group, tutorial-style teaching and interaction with other students on this module, with assessments tailored to your degree subject area.
View Transferable Skills in Life Sciences on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Biomedical Science: Practice and Employability
(15 CREDITS)
Get career-ready. This unique module is designed to give you an in-depth view of the day-to-day work of a Biomedical Scientist, introducing you to the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) and Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC), as well as preparing you for the graduate job market.<br><br>You work alongside practicing Biomedical Scientists, who join us from local hospitals to run workshops and practicals, introducing you to major disciplines such as haematology and blood transfusion, cellular pathology, medical microbiology and clinical biochemistry. This is an excellent opportunity to boost your CV, demonstrating you are up-to-speed with safe laboratory practice, including effective observations, measurements and accurate records, and can apply key skills in information retrieval, communication, data analysis and interpretation, numeracy, problem solving and group work.<br><br>You also work with a range of employability experts, who will help you to plan your career and set personal development goals, as well as effectively assemble CV’s, complete application forms and prepare for interview.
View Biomedical Science: Practice and Employability on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Cell Biology and Cellular Pathology
(15 CREDITS)
Explore how the structural organisation of the nucleus and cytoskeleton affects gene expression, cell division and cell-cell communication. You also discover how cells regulate growth, proliferation and cell death, and explore how disruption of these processes leads to cancer.  Discussion will centre on the principles and practice of histological screening, with an emphasis on changes observed in specific cancer types.
View Cell Biology and Cellular Pathology on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Medical Microbiology
(15 CREDITS)
Consider the structural diversity, function and method of genetic transfer among various deadly infectious agents, assessing their role in the natural world and infectious disease. You will evaluate different methods of diagnosis, review methods of hospital-acquired infection control and investigate the different pathways of transmission. You also address treatment options, reviewing the efficacy, side-effects and toxicity of drugs as well as considering the impact of disease upon society.
View Medical Microbiology on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Haematology and Blood Transfusion Science
(15 CREDITS)
Blood analysis can lead to a range of diagnoses, from coagulation disorders to leukaemia. So how do abnormalities in genes, proteins and cells lead to diseases of the blood? Investigate the biochemistry and cell biology that underpins haematology, and explore its uses in medicine – particularly in NHS laboratories. You will also review the practicalities and limitations of blood transfusions as well as exploring the School’s latest research into possible blood substitutes.
View Haematology and Blood Transfusion Science on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: CORE
Clinical Biochemistry
(15 CREDITS)
Discover the importance of enzymes on human health. Consider the mechanisms and kinetics of hydrolytic enzymes, explore methods for protein analysis and purification and assess the use of recombinant DNA technology in the large scale production of proteins in the laboratory. You also study of the importance of lipids, carbohydrates and hormones in health and the diagnosis of disease.
View Clinical Biochemistry on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Medical Genetics
(15 CREDITS)
5.5% of the population will have developed a genetic disorder by age 25. But how does genetic disease occur? From understanding the molecular basis of genetic disease, to the techniques used in NHS laboratories for diagnosis and screening for genetic disorders, you address the nature and inheritance of both single gene and complex genetic disease, and explore the effects of abnormalities in human chromosomes. Developments such as gene therapy, the 100,000 genomes project and manipulation of embryos will also be discussed.
View Medical Genetics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: COMPULSORY
Immunity in Health and Disease
(15 CREDITS)
Our bodies are under attack. So how do we defend ourselves against foreign invaders? Explore the anatomical and structural components of the immune system and assess what happens in the event of immunodysfunction. Utilising real-world case-studies (eg AIDS), and looking at specific examples (eg allergy and transplantation) you will review important aspects of clinical immunology and immunopathology, gaining an understanding of auto-immunity and immune-deficiencies. You will also consider the future of human immunology – evaluating how far vaccines can protect us against disease. Using the knowledge you have gained you will be able to identify areas of current immunology understanding that could lead to positive medical intervention.
View Immunity in Health and Disease on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 08: COMPULSORY
Molecular Biology: Genes, Proteins and Disease
(15 CREDITS)
Molecular biology is central to our knowledge of how biology "works" at a molecular level. This module explores the breadth of processes involved in the regulation of gene expression and the proteins that are made. You also discover the ever-expanding range of molecular biology techniques, including PCR, cloning and mutagenesis, and how these are applied to investigate and treat disease.
View Molecular Biology: Genes, Proteins and Disease on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE
NHS Placement Report
(120 CREDITS)
View NHS Placement Report on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Research Project in Biomedical Science
(45 CREDITS)
This module gives you the chance to conduct an individual scientific investigation on a topic relating to your degree specialisation. Develop skills to identify a suitable question and then design an experimental approach to obtain data addressing this question. This module assesses your analysis and presentation of these data in a suitable scientific paper format report and the research, understanding and critical writing about the scientific literature relating to your project as well as your oral project presentation skills and response to questions, the planning and management of your project work, your progress reflection and your employability skills.
View Research Project in Biomedical Science on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Issues in Biomedical Science
(15 CREDITS)
Are all scientific advances good news? Investigate the ethics and impact of new research, from discussing how limited economic resource restricts accessibility of new treatments, to how health professionals can best help the public make informed decisions. Even research as exciting as stem cell technology, with the possibility it carries of curing genetic illness, must be considered from an ethical point of view.
View Issues in Biomedical Science on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: OPTIONAL
Option(s) from list
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 04: OPTIONAL
Option(s) from list
(30 CREDITS)
Placement
Please note, vaccinations are required for students undertaking an NHS placement.
Teaching
Learn through a combination of lectures, laboratory sessions and coursework
Undergraduate students in the School of Life Sciences typically attend two or three hours of lectures per week per module, plus two or three laboratory practices per module
Gain experience collating and interpreting data, and reporting findings clearly and concisely
Participate in an optional one-week summer school learning from NHS professionals
Assessment
Degrees are awarded on the results of your written examinations together with continual assessments of your practical work and coursework
Contribute towards real-world research projects in your final year of study
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£9,250 per year
International fee
£23,200 per year
Fees will increase for each academic year of study.
Home/UK fees and funding information
International fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
Our events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex. We run a number of Open Days throughout the year which enable you to discover what our campus has to offer. 
You have the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
Check out our
Visit Us
pages to find out more information about booking onto one of our events. And if the dates aren’t suitable for you, feel free to
book a campus tour here
.
Applying
Applications for our full-time undergraduate courses should be made through the
Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS)
. Full details on how to apply can be found on the
filling in your UCAS undergraduate application
web page.
Our UK students, and some of our EU and international students, who are still at school or college, can apply through their school. Your school will be able to check and then submit your completed application to UCAS. Our other international applicants (EU or worldwide) or independent applicants in the UK can also apply online through UCAS Apply.
The UCAS code for our University of Essex is
ESSEX E70
. The individual campus codes for our Loughton and Southend Campuses are 'L' and 'S' respectively.
You can find further information on how to apply, including information on transferring from another university, applying if you are not currently at a school or college, and applying for readmission on our
How to apply and entry requirements
page.
Offer Holder Days
If you receive an undergraduate offer to study with us in October 2024 and live in the UK, you will receive an email invitation to book onto one of our Offer Holder Days. Our Colchester Campus Offer Holder Days run from February to May 2024 on various Wednesdays and Saturdays, and our Southend Campus events run in April and May. These events provide the opportunity to meet your department, tour our campus and accommodation, and chat to current students. To support your attendance, we are offering a travel bursary, allowing you to claim up to £150 as reimbursement for travel expenses. For further information about Offer Holder Days, including terms and conditions and eligibility criteria for our travel bursary, please visit our
webpage.
If you are an overseas offer-holder, you will be invited to attend one of our virtual events. However, you are more than welcome to join us at one of our in-person Offer Holder Days if you are able to - we will let you know in your invite email how you can do this.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree virtual tours allows you to explore our University from the comfort of your home. Check out our
Colchester virtual tour
and
Southend virtual tour
to see accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Related courses
BSc Biomedical Science
Study mode:
Full-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
Course options:
Year Abroad
Placement Year
Integrated Master in Science: Biomedical Science
Study mode:
Full-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
Course options:
Placement Year
Year Abroad
BSc Biomedical Science (Including Foundation Year)
Study mode:
Full-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Life at Essex
What it's like to live at Essex
Accommodation
Find your new home
Open Days
Come see for yourself
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website