Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FUG00103%2F4%2FBSc-Economics&auth=nfuVfrVBj7zqY0cxwVQs2Q&profile=_default&rank=290&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Undergraduate
Courses
BSc Economics
Undergraduate Course
BSc Economics
(Including Foundation Year)
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Course options
3 years + Foundation Year
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Economics (Including Foundation Year)
UCAS code:
L103
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
4 years
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Essex Pathways
Our BSc Economics (including Foundation Year) could be suitable for you if your academic qualifications do not yet meet our entry requirements for a three-year version of our business and economics courses and you want a programme that improves your skills to support your academic performance.
Open to UK and EU applicants, this four-year course includes a Foundation Year (known as Year Zero) which is delivered by our
Essex Pathways Department
followed by a further three years of study in our
Business and Economics Pathway
which will cover topics such as the basics of business setup; and necessary mathematical and statistical skills. At the end of Year Zero all students who pass the Business and Economics Pathway will have a choice of which course to progress with. As well as BSc Economics students on the Business and Economics Pathway could also study BSc Accounting and Finance, or BSc Business Management.
From Year One of BSc Economics you gain a thorough introduction to all aspects of economics, including micro and macroeconomics, and qualitative and mathematical research methods. Our BSc Economics offers you a large degree of flexibility, giving you freedom to focus on a broad range of areas which inspire you. You'll study all the major mainstream fields, but we have particular strengths in these areas:
Game theory and strategic interactions
Theoretical and applied econometrics
Labour economics
We are 4th in UK for research power in economics and econometrics (Times Higher Education research power measure, Research Excellence Framework 2021).
Your education is inspired and informed by this pioneering research, so that you graduate with a strong training in economics.
Why we're great.
7th in UK for economics (The Guardian University Guide 2025)
Top 25 in the UK for economics and econometrics in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2024
Small class sizes allow you to work closely with your teachers and classmates
Our expert staff
Our staff all have strong subject backgrounds, and are highly skilled in their areas both as academics and practitioners.
Within our Department of Economics, you are taught by the most prominent economists. Our researchers are at the forefront of their field and have even received MBEs, with students coming from across the globe to study, research or work with us. Our
Department of Economics
is a richly diverse home to staff and students from all over the world who have a strong sense of belonging and want to think, learn and change the world together.
Many of our researchers also provide consultancy services to businesses in London and other major financial centres, helping us to develop research for today's society as well as informing our teaching for the future.
Specialist facilities
By studying within our
Essex Pathways Department
for your foundation year, you will have access to all of the facilities that the University of Essex has to offer, as well as those provided by our department to support you:
We provide computer labs for internet research; classrooms with access to PowerPoint facilities for student presentations; AV facilities for teaching and access to web-based learning materials
Our new
Student Services Hub
will support you and provide information for all your needs as a student
Our social space is stocked with hot magazines and newspapers, and provides an informal setting to meet with your lecturers, tutors and friends
Our Department of Economics also offers excellent on-campus facilities:
Extensive software for quantitative analysis is available in all computer labs across the university
Access a variety of economics databases and multiple copies of textbooks and e-books in the
Albert Sloman Library
Your future
Many employers want economists with critical thinking skills who can tackle large data sets and practical problems. Our course helps you to become more employable and takes you closer to that dream job or postgraduate course when you graduate.
Our students are in demand from a wide range of employers in a host of occupations, including financial analysis, management, public administration and accountancy.
Our
recent graduates
have gone on to work for a wide range of high-profile companies including:
Bank of England
Barclays Capital
Citigroup
Deloitte
Ernst and Young
Morgan Stanley
Bank of New York
Santander
We also work with the University's
Student Development Team
to help you find out about further work experience, internships, placements, and voluntary opportunities.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
UK and EU applicants:
All applications for degree courses with a foundation year (Year Zero) will be considered individually, whether you
think you might not have the grades to enter the first year of a degree course;
have non-traditional qualifications or experience (e.g. you haven’t studied A-levels or a BTEC);
are returning to university after some time away from education; or
are looking for more support during the transition into university study.
Standard offer:
Our standard offer is 72 UCAS tariff points from at least two full A-levels, or equivalent.
Examples of the above tariff may include:
A-levels: DDD
BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma: MMP
T-levels: Pass with E in core
For this course all applicants must also hold GCSE Maths at grade C/4 or above (or equivalent). We
may
be able to consider a pass in OFQUAL regulated Level 2 Functional Skills Maths where you cannot meet the requirements for Maths at GCSE level. However, you are advised to try to retake GCSE Mathematics if possible as this will better prepare you for university study and future employment.
If you are unsure whether you meet the entry criteria, please
get in touch
for advice.
Mature applicants and non-traditional academic backgrounds:
We welcome applications from mature students (over 21) and students with non-traditional academic backgrounds (might not have gone on from school to take level 3 qualifications).  We will consider your educational and employment history, along with your personal statement and reference, to gain a rounded view of your suitability for the course.
You will still need to meet our GCSE requirements.
International applicants:
Essex Pathways Department is unable to accept applications from international students. Foundation pathways for international students are available at the
University of Essex International College
and are delivered and awarded by Kaplan, in partnership with the University of Essex. Successful completion will enable you to progress to the relevant degree course at the University of Essex.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Undergraduate Admissions team at
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
English language requirements for applicants whose first language is not English:
IELTS 5.5 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in each component, or specified score in another equivalent test that we accept.
Details of English language requirements, including component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
If we accept the English component of an international qualification it will be included in the academic levels listed above for the relevant countries.
English language shelf-life
Most English language qualifications have a validity period of 5 years. The validity period of Pearson Test of English, TOEFL and CBSE or CISCE English is 2 years.
If you require a Student visa to study in the UK please see our
immigration webpages
for the latest Home Office guidance on English language qualifications.
Pre-sessional English courses
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Pending English language qualifications
You don’t need to achieve the required level before making your application, but it will be one of the conditions of your offer.
If you cannot find the qualification that you have achieved or are pending, then please email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
.
Additional Notes
If you’re an international student, but do not meet the English language or academic requirements for direct admission to this degree, you could prepare and gain entry through a pathway course. Find out more about opportunities available to you at the
University of Essex International College
Structure
Course structure
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The following modules are based on the current course structure and may change in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 0
Year 1
Year 2
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Mathematics and Statistics for Economics and Business
(30 CREDITS)
Want to use mathematical techniques to solve problems? And to calculate basic statistical measures? Develop mathematical skills like number work, algebra, geometry, probability and statistics that can be used on any course requiring mathematics above Higher GCSE standard. Learn to solve relevant problems and know how to present data clearly.
View Mathematics and Statistics for Economics and Business on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Research and Academic Development Skills
(30 CREDITS)
Academic Skills covers the key areas that you will experience during your degree, preparing you for aspects of academic study at undergraduate level. The module enables you to develop and enhance your existing abilities by focusing on the core skills of reading, writing, listening and speaking in an academic context. It does this with both generic texts and also, crucially, those related to your subject area. Academic Skills provides strategies for successful communication and interaction through independent and collaborative learning offering opportunity to further enhance your research skills. The content is designed to ensure that you acquire a range of transferable employability and life skills.
View Research and Academic Development Skills on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Economic Foundations and Effective Management
(30 CREDITS)
This module begins with the realm of management, exploring decision-making at individual, firm, and market levels. It covers essential management topics including models of management, corporate responsibility, communication, and innovation. Subsequently, the module transitions into examining economics perspectives on the role of market in determining prices and resource allocation, offering diverse viewpoints on decision-making to address economic challenges. It then extends into interactions between sectors such as household, firm, financial institution, government and foreign trade.


There is no assumption of prior knowledge of management or economics. It aims to equip students with a holistic understanding of economic and managerial dynamics. Real-life events, case studies and examples, combined with theories and concepts in management and economics, will be explored to foster deeper understanding.
View Economic Foundations and Effective Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Business Essentials: Accounting, Finance and Marketing
(30 CREDITS)
View Business Essentials: Accounting, Finance and Marketing on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Introduction to Economics
(30 CREDITS)
How do consumers make decisions? Or firms conduct different market strategies? What impact does government policy have on inflation? Or unemployment? Develop your knowledge of economics in relation to a range of contemporary issues. Learn how to apply both micro and macroeconomic principles to the analysis of such problems.
View Introduction to Economics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY WITH OPTIONS
EC114-4-FY or (MA114-4-AU and MA108-4-SP)
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY WITH OPTIONS
EC115-4-FY or MA101-4-FY
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 04: OPTIONAL
Option(s) from list or outside option(s)
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Career Skills in Economics
(0 CREDITS)
Are you ready for graduate employment? Like to improve your core skills? Need to know more about the working world? Attend workshops, events and activities to build your knowledge, abilities and experience with this compulsory, zero credit module that runs during your three years of undergraduate study.
View Career Skills in Economics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Macroeconomics (Intermediate)
(30 CREDITS)
What tools can you use for macroeconomic analysis? And how can these then be applied to macro-policy issues? Learn how to build alternative macroeconomic models and apply analytical reasoning. Examine real-life macroeconomic questions, on topics such as government budgets or wage-price flexibility, and critically evaluate macroeconomic policies.
View Macroeconomics (Intermediate) on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Microeconomics (Intermediate)
(30 CREDITS)
How do consumers behave in a competitive market? And what about producers? How do various imperfections affect the outcome of decentralised markets? Study the fundamental concepts and methods in microeconomics. Understand the tools and methods of analysis for economic reasoning, and develop your critical approach to economic issues and policies.
View Microeconomics (Intermediate) on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Mathematical Methods in Economics
(15 CREDITS)
What mathematical methods can analyse economic problems? And what mathematical tools are needed to understand economic models? Gain an introduction to the mathematical methods commonly used in economics, build your knowledge of mathematical tools for work in economics and develop your understanding of the mathematical language used in economic literature.
View Mathematical Methods in Economics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Introduction to Econometric Methods
(15 CREDITS)
Which econometric methods can analyse economic data? How do you critically assess applied economic literature? Learn how to carry out statistical and econometric calculations, plus gain experience of using the Stata software package. Demonstrate your subsequent understanding of the linear regression model with your own investigation on an empirical issue.
View Introduction to Econometric Methods on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: OPTIONAL
Option(s) from list or outside option(s)
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Career Skills in Economics
(0 CREDITS)
Are you ready for graduate employment? Like to improve your core skills? Need to know more about the working world? Attend workshops, events and activities to build your knowledge, abilities and experience with this compulsory, zero credit module that runs during your three years of undergraduate study.
View Career Skills in Economics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Project: Economics
(30 CREDITS)
What interests you? Design and implement your own research project, under the guidance and supervision of our world-leading academic staff. Demonstrate your knowledge of economic ideas in greater depth, building your professional research skills and developing further understanding of a topic that fascinates you.
View Project: Economics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: OPTIONAL
Option(s) from list
(60 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 03: OPTIONAL
Option(s) from list or outside option(s) if not already taken in 2nd year
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Career Skills in Economics
(0 CREDITS)
Are you ready for graduate employment? Like to improve your core skills? Need to know more about the working world? Attend workshops, events and activities to build your knowledge, abilities and experience with this compulsory, zero credit module that runs during your three years of undergraduate study.
View Career Skills in Economics on our Module Directory
Teaching
From year 1 undergraduate students in the Department of Economics typically attend a two-hour lecture and a one-hour class for each module per week.
Any language classes involve language laboratory sessions
Our classes are run in small groups, so you receive a lot of individual attention
Teaching is arranged to allow freedom in how you organise your learning experiences
Optional support classes in Economics
Assessment
Your assessed coursework will generally consist of essays, reports, in-class tests, individual or group oral presentations, and small scale research projects
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£5,760 per year
This fee is set by the UK Government for classroom-based Foundation Years only. Your fee will increase in your next year in alignment with the
Undergraduate course fee set by the UK Government
.
International fee
£20,475 per year
The
standard undergraduate degree fee for international students
will apply in subsequent years.
Fees will increase for each academic year of study.
Home/UK fees and funding information
International fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
Our events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex. We run a number of Open Days throughout the year which enable you to discover what our campus has to offer. 
You have the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
Check out our
Visit Us
pages to find out more information about booking onto one of our events. And if the dates aren’t suitable for you, feel free to
book a campus tour here
.
Applying
Applications for our full-time undergraduate courses should be made through the
Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS)
. Full details on how to apply can be found on the
filling in your UCAS undergraduate application
web page.
Our UK students, and some of our EU students, who are still at school or college, can apply through their school. Your school will be able to check and then submit your completed application to UCAS. Our other EU applicants or independent applicants in the UK can also apply online through UCAS Apply.
The UCAS code for our University of Essex is
ESSEX E70
. The individual campus codes for our Loughton and Southend Campuses are ‘L' and ‘S' respectively.
You can find further information on how to apply, including information on transferring from another university, applying if you are not currently at a school or college, and applying for readmission on our
How to apply and entry requirements
page.
Please note that this course is not open to international applicants.
Offer Holder Days
If you receive an undergraduate offer to study with us in October 2024 and live in the UK, you will receive an email invitation to book onto one of our Offer Holder Days. Our Colchester Campus Offer Holder Days run from February to May 2024 on various Wednesdays and Saturdays, and our Southend Campus events run in April and May. These events provide the opportunity to meet your department, tour our campus and accommodation, and chat to current students. To support your attendance, we are offering a travel bursary, allowing you to claim up to £150 as reimbursement for travel expenses. For further information about Offer Holder Days, including terms and conditions and eligibility criteria for our travel bursary, please visit our
webpage.
If you are an overseas offer-holder, you will be invited to attend one of our virtual events. However, you are more than welcome to join us at one of our in-person Offer Holder Days if you are able to - we will let you know in your invite email how you can do this.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree virtual tours allows you to explore our University from the comfort of your home. Check out our
Colchester virtual tour
and
Southend virtual tour
to see accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Related courses
BA Economics
Study mode:
Full-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
Course options:
Placement Year
Year Abroad
BSc Economics
Study mode:
Full-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
Course options:
Placement Year
Year Abroad
Integrated Master in Economics: Economics
Study mode:
Full-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
Course options:
Placement Year
Year Abroad
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
CHAT TO US
ASK OUR STUDENTS AND STAFF ANYTHING
Read all about it
Get a prospectus
Study at Essex
Find a course
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website