Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FUG01328%2F1%2FFdA-Events-Management&auth=MAjRyOcluNleOYM4089kdA&profile=_default&rank=370&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Undergraduate
Courses
FdA Events Management
Undergraduate Course
FdA Events Management
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Course options
2 years
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Events Management
UCAS code:
N889
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Edge Hotel School
Kick start your exciting career in events planning with a unique Events Management degree from the University of Essex.  Graduates of this programme could go onto careers working on weddings, sporting events, festivals, fashion shows, corporate events or conferences.
After completing the FdA you will have the opportunity, subject to satisfactory performance, to continue with your studies and finish with a
BA degree.
This course is not suitable if you need a Student visa to study in the UK.
The Events Management degree prepares you for the fast-paced world of planning and managing events.  You will learn alongside lecturers who have worked on worldwide and high profile events while gaining experience of real weddings, conferences and private functions alongside your studies.
You will develop your industry knowledge and professional skills by working within Wivenhoe House, a 4* country house hotel, alongside your studies. You will gain experience in the different departments of the hotel including the kitchen, front office, restaurant as well as an extended period of time in the events department. These shifts may involve some late finishes on occasion, as well as weekend work, so that you get to see all aspects of the different events the hotel offers such as weddings, meetings, tribute acts, baby showers, conferences and more.
With a student experience unlike any other, it may come as no surprise that the Edge Hotel School is ranked in the top 10 in the UK for overall positivity in our subject area (National Student Survey 2024, English broad discipline higher education institutions).
As well as spending time in
4* Wivenhoe House
, some of our high performing Event's Management students have in past had the unforgettable opportunity to work at big name events and venues like the BRIT awards, the O2 arena and the Royal Ascot.
You will study topics including:
Event planning and logistics
Winning an event contract and proposal design
Business innovation
Contemporary management practice
Cultural events, festivals and weddings
Human resources management
Digital marketing
The
Edge Hotel School
experience is unlike any other student experience.  Not only will you graduate from a well-renowned university - you will develop your industry knowledge and professional skills by working within
Wivenhoe House
, a fully-commercial 4* hotel, alongside your studies.
Why we're great.
Our lecturers have international industry experience to support your learning and development
Edge Hotel School graduates go onto careers all over the world
You will gain experience alongside your studies in a real 4* hotel to boost your employability
Placement year
Students that wish to broaden their experience in different types of events will also be given the option to swap a rotation in our Events and Conference team for an external work experience during Level 5 (Year 2) of this course. This experience will last 4 weeks, and needs to be instigated by you. The Placement team at the University of Essex and staff of the Edge Hotel School will assist you in sourcing opportunities as well as improving your interview and CV-writing skills. This external work experience will be assessed in the same as your rotations in Wivenhoe House hotel and is a chance for you to experience a broad set of events that you might wish to pursue within your career.
Our expert staff
Our staff includes lecturers with both professional as well as academic backgrounds to ensure you are taught by people with industry-relevant experience themselves.  Among our academic staff are a former organiser of the BRIT Awards, London Fashion Week and events for Her Majesty The Queen, a former hotel General Manager, a former Food and Beverage Manager for award-winning cruise lines and a Dr. (PhD) with international research experience.
Specialist facilities
In Wivenhoe House you can gain experience in a 40-bedroom country house hotel on the university campus with a brasserie restaurant and a busy conference and events function that hosts over 300 events and 50 weddings annually. If for any reason the hotel is subject to closures during rotations, we have developed a comprehensive platform of online skills and experience workshops to replicate the practical experience offer as closely as possible.
The Edge Hotel School has connections with a range of organisations across the hospitality and events industries – throughout your studies you can expect guest lectures, masterclasses and an annual careers fair to help further your career prospects.  Supporters of the Edge Hotel School include:
BaxterStorey
Dorchester Collection
Edge Foundation
Exclusive Hotels and Venues
Master Innholders
Milsoms Hotels and Restaurants
Royal Lancaster London
and many others.
The
Edge Hotel Society
hosts student-organised events including industry speakers, student social events and an annual ball.
As an Edge Hotel School student you will be issued with a uniform to wear for your shifts in Wivenhoe House and when representing the School externally. You will need to provide your own white shirts and black shoes.
Your future
The Events Management degree at the Edge Hotel School combines both events experience and industry knowledge to provide you with the skills for an exciting career in many aspects of events management.
The event and hospitality industry are excited by the calibre of our graduates and there are opportunities throughout the course to meet recruitment managers and network.
Graduates of this programme can go onto careers, in the UK or internationally, in areas such as:
Events management
Wedding planning
Venue management
Festival planning and management
Food and beverage management
Marketing and sales
Cruise ships and airlines
“Events management graduates need to lead by example at events.  Here you will combine management and practical skills to enable you to do the job of planning and running great events to a professional standard– that’s why our graduates are so employable.  Working in events management presents exciting opportunities internationally as well as across the UK.”
Philip Berners
, Lecturer and Course Coordinator
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
GCSE:
Mathematics and English C/4, or equivalent. We can consider OFQUAL regulated Level 2 Functional Skills in Numeracy as equivalent to GCSE Maths C/4. We are able to consider a range of equivalent English language qualifications, including OFQUAL regulated level 2 Functional Skills, Key Skills level 2, literacy units taken as part of the Access to HE Diploma, or a demonstration of the use of English through essay-based subjects at either GCSE or A-level equivalent.  Advice on acceptability can be provided, please contact
Undergraduate Admissions
for more information.
A-levels:
CC or 64 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 1 full A-level or equivalent.
BTEC:
MPP or 64 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 1 full A-level or equivalent.
Combined qualifications on the UCAS tariff:
64 UCAS tariff points from a minimum of 1 full A level or equivalent. Tariff point offers may be made if you are taking a qualification, or mixture of qualifications, from the list on our
undergraduate application information page.
IB:
24 points or three Higher Level certificates with 333.
IB Career-related Programme:
We consider combinations of IB Diploma Programme courses with BTECs or other qualifications.
QAA-approved Access to HE Diploma:
9 level 3 credits at Merit and 36 level 3 credits at Pass.
T-levels:
We consider T-levels on a case-by-case basis, depending on subject studied. The offer for most courses is Pass with E in the core. Depending on the course applied for there may be additional requirements, which may include a specific grade in the Core.
Additional requirements
All applicants must be aged 18 or over by 31 October 2024 for October 2024 entry.
Subject to satisfactory academic and professional assessment, candidates will have the opportunity to progress to the BA (Hons) degree after 2 years.
Unfortunately if you need a Student Visa to study in the UK this course is not suitable for you. This is due to the high percentage of work placement which exceeds the amount permitted in the Student Visa regulations.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Undergraduate Admissions team at
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
English language requirements for applicants whose first language is not English:
IELTS 6.0 overall, or specified score in another equivalent test that we accept.
Details of English language requirements, including component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
If we accept the English component of an international qualification it will be included in the academic levels listed above for the relevant countries.
English language shelf-life
Most English language qualifications have a validity period of 5 years. The validity period of Pearson Test of English, TOEFL and CBSE or CISCE English is 2 years.
If you require a Student visa to study in the UK please see our
immigration webpages
for the latest Home Office guidance on English language qualifications.
Pre-sessional English courses
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Pending English language qualifications
You don’t need to achieve the required level before making your application, but it will be one of the conditions of your offer.
If you cannot find the qualification that you have achieved or are pending, then please email
ugquery@essex.ac.uk
.
Requirements for second and final year entry
Different requirements apply for second and final year entry, and specified component grades are also required for applicants who require a visa to study in the UK. Details of English language requirements, including UK Visas and Immigration minimum component scores, and the tests we accept for applicants who require a Student visa (excluding Nationals of Majority English Speaking Countries) can be found
here
Additional Notes
If you’re an international student, but do not meet the English language or academic requirements for direct admission to this degree, you could prepare and gain entry through a pathway course. Find out more about opportunities available to you at the
University of Essex International College
Structure
Course structure
Below is just a example of some of the modules from the current academic year. Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The course content is therefore reviewed on an annual basis to ensure our courses remain up-to-date so modules listed are subject to change.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Finance for Events Business
(15 CREDITS)
This module introduces you to the regulatory frameworks for corporate bodies in the UK and sets the key financial documents into context (such as profit and loss, cash flow and balance sheets).  Financial ratios and comparative measures are described and analysed in the context of micro-economics both internally and industry wide.
View Finance for Events Business on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
The Event Business Environment
(15 CREDITS)
This module will enable you to analyse the macro, micro and internal business environments in which international hospitality and events businesses operate. A comprehensive understanding of the environments that an organisation operates in will enable you to interpret situations and allow you to make decisions that add value for stakeholders.  The focus of the module is on the external and internal influences on organisations and the effect these have on business practices and internal aspects of organisational life.  Contemporary business issues will be studied as they arise.
View The Event Business Environment on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Marketing and Customer Behaviour
(15 CREDITS)
This module will introduce you to the importance and centrality of the customer experience as fundamental to all activity within hospitality and event businesses.  You will understand the different types of customer and factors that will influence their behaviour and expectations. The module will identify the components of effective customer relationships enabling you to develop the knowledge required to effectively deliver customer excellence.
View Marketing and Customer Behaviour on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Food and Beverage Management
(15 CREDITS)
The module aims to develop your understanding of gastronomy as well as current trends in food and beverage and how culture, societal expectations and consumer demands influence the food and beverage offerings of events, restaurants, hotels and other food establishments.  It will provide you with an understanding and insight into food and beverage commodities, how they are created and used as well as the processes used in the sourcing, purchasing, production and service of food and beverage within the events and hospitality industry.
View Food and Beverage Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Delivering Event Operations and the Customer Experience 1
(30 CREDITS)
This module will introduce you to the concept and importance of the centrality of the customer experience as fundamental to all activity within a hotel business. The module will provide you with the opportunity to reflect on and take part in delivering customer excellence within the various functions of the hotel operation.
View Delivering Event Operations and the Customer Experience 1 on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Event Operations
(15 CREDITS)
This module will provide you with an understanding of the operational characteristics of a high quality event business and the importance of effective teamwork in delivering excellent customer service. You will be introduced to the legal and regulatory context in which events operate, understand and use basic financial and costing skills and utilise relevant technology to enhance business performance.
View Event Operations on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: COMPULSORY
Weddings and Festivals
(15 CREDITS)
This module will introduce you to the concept of cultural events, weddings and festivals in society. The module will provide the origins and impacts of events in this genre and will consider a range of ethnic, religious, sociological and cultural viewpoints.
View Weddings and Festivals on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Management and Leadership
(15 CREDITS)
This module will equip you with a range of management and leadership skills to support your career development in the hospitality and event industries. You will identify how reflective practice enhances the effectiveness of managers, and assess your own skills set, identifying areas for development.  You will show appreciation of the types of management skills that are transferable from academia to the work of hospitality and event managers, building on from the skills outlined within the Continual Professional Development module studied at level 5, for example team working, delegation and self-management.
View Management and Leadership on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Sustainability in Events
(15 CREDITS)
In this module you will explore the subject of business ethics and the related concept of corporate social responsibility.  The module assesses the business need for ethical practice, and examines the strategies through which ethical practices can become embedded. Furthermore Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has become a key concept in business operations and organizational management in recent years.  The module will examine the background of CSR, its current applications, challenges, limitations as well as the different forms it can take such as HR policy and codes of conduct, legislation, and administration.

This module has been designed to enable students to integrate their subject knowledge with an understanding of sustainable development, acquiring the skills and competencies essential for addressing the urgent sustainability challenges of the 21st century.
View Sustainability in Events on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Digital Marketing and Revenue Management
(15 CREDITS)
This module will develop your understanding of the underlying themes and forces acting on an organisation relating to its digital business, and in particular e-marketing. This is an evolving and growing aspect of modern marketing and you will research different strategies used throughout all industries to gain customers and improve brand recognition. You will learn about revenue management and the use of data to inform decision makers when maximising revenue in hospitality and events.
View Digital Marketing and Revenue Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Continual Professional Development
(15 CREDITS)
The purpose of this module is for you to consolidate your professional and personal learning and to focus on the development of techniques and strategies for self-management of your continuous professional development. You will develop critical self-reflection skills as well as provide an understanding of the role and relevance of research for managers in decision making. The module will also provide opportunity to develop a range of skills to prepare you for career advancement and employment opportunities.
View Continual Professional Development on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Event Supervision, Data and Technology
(15 CREDITS)
This module continues from the first module, Event Operations  by providing you with the opportunity to develop the knowledge of supervising teams as well as aspects of operational management. You will develop further the knowledge and application required for the successful planning and organising of your teams for the delivery of products and services to customers in all aspects of event management operations. You will understand the value of data to inform managers on trends, performance and analysis.
View Event Supervision, Data and Technology on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Contemporary Issues in the Event Industry
(15 CREDITS)
This module will enable you to analyse current contemporary issues that impact on management, staff, operations and customers within the events industry. Contemporary management practice will be studied within changing organisational, consumer and environmental contexts to enhance your understanding of factors that impact on competitive positioning within the industry.
View Contemporary Issues in the Event Industry on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: COMPULSORY
Delivering Event Operations and the Customer Experience 2
(30 CREDITS)
This module will introduce you to the concept and importance of the centrality of the customer experience as fundamental to all activity within a hotel business. The module will provide you with the opportunity to reflect on and take part in delivering customer excellence within the various functions of the hotel operation.
View Delivering Event Operations and the Customer Experience 2 on our Module Directory
Teaching
Each year of the FdA consists of up to 21 weeks of teaching, 8 weeks gaining experience in the hotel and 2 weeks self-study, in addition to your holidays.
During a teaching week you would spend around 9 hours in lectures, or smaller seminars.
During a hotel week you would spend 4 or 5 days on shift, Monday – Sunday, gaining experience and applying the academic theory from your lectures.
Most of your hotel experience at Wivenhoe House will be in the conference and events department, but you will also gain some experience in reception, the kitchens and restaurant.
Term dates for this programme may differ from the standard termly timetable. Please contact the department for specific term date information on
ehs@essex.ac.uk
Assessment
Your Events Management degree has been designed to provide a mix of assessment approaches, including:
Essays
Exams
Posters
Presentations
Reflective statements
Reports
Dissertation
Events Project.  The Events Project in Level 6 of the Events Management degree consists of an individual report, a presentation and a group report focusing on a real-life event with an external client.  This is your opportunity to organise a live event for an external client from start to finish during the final level of your course.
The Professional Performance Assessment (PPA) which takes the form of an interview is used throughout our courses to allow you to reflect, practise and improve your interview skills before embarking on interviews for your first graduate role.
The Professional Code of Conduct is an important part of your assessment.  It focuses on areas that are important for future managers such as attendance, punctuality and team working.  The Professional Code of Conduct is available in your
Student Handbook.
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£9,250 per year
International fee
£20,475 per year
Fees will increase for each academic year of study.
Home/UK fees and funding information
International fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
Our events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex. We run a number of Open Days throughout the year which enable you to discover what our campus has to offer. 
You have the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
Check out our
Visit Us
pages to find out more information about booking onto one of our events. And if the dates aren’t suitable for you, feel free to
book a campus tour here
.
Applying
Applications for our full-time undergraduate courses should be made through the
Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS)
. Full details on how to apply can be found on the
filling in your UCAS undergraduate application
web page.
Our UK students, and some of our EU and international students, who are still at school or college, can apply through their school. Your school will be able to check and then submit your completed application to UCAS. Our other international applicants (EU or worldwide) or independent applicants in the UK can also apply online through UCAS Apply.
The UCAS code for our University of Essex is
ESSEX E70
. The individual campus codes for our Loughton and Southend Campuses are 'L' and 'S' respectively.
You can find further information on how to apply, including information on transferring from another university, applying if you are not currently at a school or college, and applying for readmission on our
How to apply and entry requirements
page.
Offer Holder Days
If you receive an undergraduate offer to study with us in October 2024 and live in the UK, you will receive an email invitation to book onto one of our Offer Holder Days. Our Colchester Campus Offer Holder Days run from February to May 2024 on various Wednesdays and Saturdays, and our Southend Campus events run in April and May. These events provide the opportunity to meet your department, tour our campus and accommodation, and chat to current students. To support your attendance, we are offering a travel bursary, allowing you to claim up to £150 as reimbursement for travel expenses. For further information about Offer Holder Days, including terms and conditions and eligibility criteria for our travel bursary, please visit our
webpage.
If you are an overseas offer-holder, you will be invited to attend one of our virtual events. However, you are more than welcome to join us at one of our in-person Offer Holder Days if you are able to - we will let you know in your invite email how you can do this.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree virtual tours allows you to explore our University from the comfort of your home. Check out our
Colchester virtual tour
and
Southend virtual tour
to see accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Related courses
BA Events Management
Study mode:
Full-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
Course options:
Year Abroad
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Life at Essex
What it's like to live at Essex
Accommodation
Find your new home
Open Days
Come see for yourself
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website