Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG00431%2F1%2FMA-Acting&auth=4w0NRqaBVPXh1p4lYhlAGQ&profile=_default&rank=40&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
MA Acting
Postgraduate Course
MA Acting
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Acting
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year
Location:
East15 (Loughton) Campus
Based in:
East 15 Acting School
East 15 Acting School's MA Acting is a challenging vocational course that is designed to prepare graduates to enter into theatre, film and related industries after a year of study.  The course prides itself on the development of a personal methodology for each actor, based upon East 15's unique practices. It is a practical, highly intensive, vocational course, involving teaching across a range of subjects such as acting for stage, screen and voice-over, movement, voice and singing. Included in the programme of study is a module on East 15’s unique Living History project.  The MA also provides a thought-provoking, life-changing experience; encouraging reflection on the function and art of the actor by exploring techniques from some of Europe's most influential practitioners as well as innovative professional practice from the UK and internationally.
MA Acting is a specialist course of one academic year with additional work on marketing students to the industry with a showcase. The course requires discipline and motivation to work at an advanced level. Beyond these, the requirements are abundant energy, insatiable curiosity and a robust sense of humour.
Some students may already possess a university degree (not necessarily in a related discipline) whilst others will have established themselves in other career paths and now seek to change the direction of their lives towards that of a professional actor.
This course also attracts professional actors who feel the need to reflect on their practice, extend their range and skills, refresh their creativity, increase their professional contacts and gain academic recognition.
This course is taught at our picturesque Loughton Campus.
View more Masters courses from
East 15 Acting School
, including specialist programmes Theatre Directing and Acting in Digital Media.
Why we're great.
Industry-ready intensive actor training by leading practitioners.
Industry showcase.
A focus on Stanislavski and Laban techniques.
Our expert staff
Our training is by professionals and for professionals, allowing our graduates to work successfully across the globe.
Our international, outstanding teaching faculty is made up of professionals from all areas of live and recorded performance.
Learn more about our staff
here
.
Specialist facilities
Our
Loughton Campus
is perfectly located, providing access to both the rich, cultural diversity of London and an attractive and peaceful setting in which to study.
We are just a five-minute walk from London Underground station, Debden, where you can travel in only thirty minutes to Central London, West End theatres and mainline train stations including the Eurostar.
We have three sites at our Loughton Campus – Hatfields, Roding House and Unit Four. Hatfields is a beautiful Georgian dower house, set in five acres of lawns with orchards, flowerbeds and a small lake, providing an idyllic atmosphere for study, relaxation and performance.
Just a short walk from Hatfields is Roding House, a £1.3 million facility containing 10 rehearsal rooms, a green room/café, a sound recording studio and a video editing suite, and our costume department.
Next to Roding House, Unit Four is a £1.5 million facility which is home to the Stage & Production Management department. The Unit contains a large workshop, paint shop, prop shop, prop storage facilities and teaching spaces.
Our on-site Corbett Theatre is named in honour of Harry H Corbett, a key member of Joan Littlewood's Theatre Workshop and early benefactor of East 15. It is used extensively for student productions and is a practical training hub for our BA Stage and Production Management students.
The building is a medieval tithe barn that was dismantled and transported to Hatfields in the 1960s. These unusual origins create a unique performance space with a special atmosphere. Renovated to include full technical facilities, tiered seating for 130 people and fitted dressing rooms, the theatre provides an excellent resource for public productions, while the adjacent Bar and Café provides a social meeting point for students and staff.
Your future
On completion of the MA Acting program, you are qualified as an actor and recognised as a graduate of East 15 training. You are equipped to pursue acting careers in theatre, film, TV and radio. You also have an understanding of how to create your own work, including how to form companies and gain funding, as well as a variety of methodologies for developing your own artistic practice.
You are encouraged to remain in touch with the school, to watch the development of succeeding students and to benefit from informal support and mentoring as you continue in your career.
“When I was auditioning at drama schools East 15 seemed to offer the most personal actor training, where they focus on you as an individual rather than trying to make you fit some mould. I can happily say the course has fully lived up to this, and I know that when I leave here I will be an actor who is not only ready to enter the industry, but be a part of shaping it too.”
Jennie Rawling, MA Acting
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
Our applicants need to undertake a successful audition or video audition, plus have a first degree with an overall 2.2, or equivalent or suitable life and/or professional expertise.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If English is not your first language, we require IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum component score of 5.5
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Additional Notes
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to successfully complete a course at the University of Essex. Where appropriate, we may ask for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
Structure
Course structure
We offer dynamic and unique courses for actors, directors and students of theatre practice. Training at East 15 draws upon 50 years of tradition combined with a keen sense of the world of stage and screen today.
Our carefully selected modules will give you the chance to explore and develop your specialist training.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Advanced Acting Methodology and Textual Studies
(30 CREDITS)
In the first unit students are required to reflect on the purpose and function of theatre and the role of the actor. They are required to assess dispassionately and objectively how they appear and what messages their physicality and vocal patterns communicate to audiences. Strategies are then developed with the acquisition of tools for acting technique, to create an open, ready, energised available physicality and voice ready to create character. Likewise, students are encouraged to move to a psychological attitude of open readiness to work, liberating their imagination towards artistic creative development whilst developing an understanding of professional discipline.
View Advanced Acting Methodology and Textual Studies on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Advanced Research Living History Project, Devising Project and Acting for Camera
(15 CREDITS)
In this core MA/ Postgraduate Diploma Acting class you are required to assess dispassionately and objectively how you appear and what messages your physicality and vocal patterns communicate to audiences. Improvisation tools and exercises to encourage spontaneity and creativity will open your mind as the technical work opens the body.
View Advanced Research Living History Project, Devising Project and Acting for Camera on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Theatre Production
(15 CREDITS)
This module focuses on public performance of full-length plays. Under the guidance of the year tutor, you will be expected to initiate everything from cast warm-up, care of costume to make-up. You manage the process of theatre production from start to finish, from research, rehearsals and screenings.
View Theatre Production on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Voice
(15 CREDITS)
You will explore the nature of accents and dialects; the relationship between posture, breath and voice; and the potential of the voice, emotional expression and vocal characterisation. You also study Shakespearean speeches and sonnets and consider the use of expressive language, sound and rhythms.
View Voice                                                                                                on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: CORE
Movement
(15 CREDITS)
You focus on the exploration of the body in space in term one. In term two you investigate deepening movement vocabulary and potential, and expanding individual range of physical choices for characterisation in a variety of theatrical styles. Various techniques are learned including animal study.
View Movement                                                                                             on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: CORE
Music and Singing
(15 CREDITS)
The aim of this module is to develop your ability to memorise and sing in parts, while also using the singing voice with a degree of technical assurance. By the third term the students are regarded as actors who can communicate through song, and are ready to prepare for audition.
View Music and Singing on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: CORE
Contextual Studies
(15 CREDITS)
You are introduced to theories of character creation in contemporary theatre practice within a historical context in this module. This work reinforces the importance of research and to establish effective research techniques at postgraduate level.
View Contextual Studies                                                                                   on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 08: CORE WITH OPTIONS
EA409-7-SU or EA408-7-SU
(60 CREDITS)
Teaching
Term 1
Your first term, focuses on:
Classes in movement, voice and singing, as well as contextual studies
Development of an artistic practice from an exploration of personal self, to that of the body in time and space and from there to the creation of character and the realisation of text
Acting classes that promote the development of intuitive, creative responses which are then framed by the introduction of techniques to build character and play actions
You will also apply technical voice and movement work to the context of an acting exercise through showings of short naturalistic scenes as well as receive an introduction to actor-centric research.
Term 2
In the second term, skills classes continue. You will also:
Work on an intensive Shakespeare module which develops and strengthens the integration of technical skills with acting technique
Experience East 15's renowned and distinctive ‘Living History' project - a long-form, non-performative improvisation in which the actor can, through rigorous research and a residential period away from the campus environment, experience and identify with the practical and visceral realities, as well as the psychological and emotional attributes, of the character
Devise an ensemble performance based on your intellectual, emotional and sensory experience and understand and realise what it is to make theatre and the realities of the industry by taking on stage management and production roles for this project
Begin to focus on acting for recorded media
Towards the end of term two you will begin to research and develop your MA project.
Term 3
The first part of Term 3 focuses on recorded media. You will:
Further develop your skills in acting for recorded media, resulting in material for your professional showreel
Learn performance skills for radio and microphone technique
You will also focus on the ‘MA Project', which consists of working in small groups on self-generated productions, where you are given independence and autonomy as company members.
The second half of term 3 sees a full production of an ensemble devised text-based play.
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£19,200
Additional costs for materials and field trips of up to approximately £800. Equipment lists are reviewed annually.
International fee
£21,300
Additional costs for materials and field trips of up to approximately £800. Equipment lists are reviewed annually.
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Applying
Applying
When you apply for one of our postgraduate courses, we will assess you on your experience (both academic and practical) and your potential for success. You will need to undertake an audition that may include an element of physical activity as part of your assessment.
You need to complete and send us an East 15 application form, including a link to your video audition, and pay your audition fee.
Full information on how to apply, what to prepare for your video audition and links to the East 15 application form and audition fee payment are on the
East 15 website
.
Auditioning
You will need to include a link to your video audition on your application form. The full information on what you need to include in your audition is on the
East 15 website
.
If you are successful in your video audition, you will be asked to attend a further audition with one of our tutors. Full information on the options available to you and what you need to prepare for your recall audition will be sent to you by email.
Auditions generally take place between November and June and are available online, on campus and at other regional and international events.  If you live outside the UK, we audition internationally in different countries each year. For a list of our events, please see the
East 15 website
. If you are unable to attend one of these in person events, you should submit your application form and video audition following the instruction on how to apply here. If you are recalled, your audition will take place online.
Visit Loughton Campus
You’ll be in intensive training at one of the most prestigious and internationally respected conservatoires in the country, gaining the skills and knowledge necessary to pursue a career in the performing arts. You'll arrive at a campus with state-of-the-art study and performance facilities, nestled in the stunning grounds of a country house.
But fear not! It’s not all work and no play at
East 15 Acting School
in Loughton and you're just a short step away from the bright lights and big city of central London.
Find out more
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Open Days
Come see for yourself
Read all about it
Get a prospectus
Study at Essex
Find a course
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website