Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG00591%2F3%2FMA-Curating&auth=j4JvUk0uM7rJeuMhBO4Y8w&profile=_default&rank=65&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
MA Curating
Postgraduate Course
MA Curating with Professional Placement
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Curating with Professional Placement
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
2 years
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Philosophical, Historical, and Interdisciplinary Studies (School of)
Our MA Curating offers a practical and theoretical training in devising and curating exhibitions, as you work towards the preparation of an exhibition at our on-site
Art Exchange
gallery.
Our course combines practice, theory and histories of curating in equal measure. You will develop an essential base skills for a successful exhibition – from object handling to managing exhibition budgets – through visiting lectures by active museum professionals; practical workshops using our on-site collection and galleries; and competitive placements at leading institutions. Previous students have worked at the V&A, Royal Academy of Arts, Hayward Gallery and Firstsite Gallery.
You will build your own confident grasp of the history and theory of exhibition-making, studying with academics who besides being active curators are producing new key texts on the curatorial history and theory. You study topics including:
How an exhibition can be used as a means of social or political critique
The historical role that museums have played in society
Participation and social engagement between spectators, artists and curators
A choice of history of art options
We're 3rd in the UK for research outputs in art history (Grade Point Average, Research Excellence Framework 2021).
Why we're great.
Prepare for your career by completing a professional placement
We give you the opportunity to curate an exhibition at our on-campus Art Exchange Gallery
We're 3rd in the UK for research outputs in art history (Grade Point Average, Research Excellence Framework 2021)
Placement year
MA Curating with Professional Placement offers a unique opportunity for you to gain relevant work experience within an external business or organisation, giving you a competitive edge in the job market and providing you with key contacts within the industry. The placement is undertaken between the taught part of the course and the individual project. Its aim is to allow you to acquire industry experience and, especially, develop an appreciation of how the skills acquired in the taught part of the course can be applied to real world work.
You'll be responsible for securing your own work placement, but if you change your mind and decide not to do your placement, or if you are not able to secure a placement, you can start your dissertation earlier and complete your Masters in the first year.
Our expert staff
We are a dynamic group of art historians who investigate the production and reception of images and built environment, across cultures and media, from the late medieval period to the present day.
Our staff's
research interests include activist art, modernist art and totalitarianism, the relationship between art and science, the artistic status of body modification, art and the environment, critical heritage, and the visual culture of social problems. We also have significant experience in curation and public engagement. Recent projects include:
Paola Di Giuseppantonio Di Franco's UKRI Future Leaders-funded research project, REPLACE
Matt Lodder's
Painted People: Humanity in 21 Tattoos
(HarperCollins, 2022)
Diana Bullen Presciutti's
Saints, Miracles, and Social Problems in Italian Renaissance Art
(Cambridge, 2023)
Specialist facilities
At Essex, you have the best of both worlds: on the one hand, you are part of a tight-knit, campus community with close ties to several small but excellent museums in the nearby town of Colchester; on the other hand, you can travel from campus to London in an hour, which puts the world's best museums and galleries at your fingertips.
Our facilities enable you to gain curatorial experience and engage in object-based learning, a cornerstone of our approach when teaching the history of art and its modes of display:
Our Essex Collection of Art from Latin America (ESCALA) is the most comprehensive Latin American art research resource in the UK and has a state-of-the-art teaching and research space
. Many of our students gain work and research experience through our collection
Our onsite gallery
Art Exchange
runs an ongoing programme of contemporary art exhibitions, talks and workshops by curators and artists, as well as exhibitions organised by our postgraduate curatorial students
Colchester's iconic Firstsite gallery features an exciting programme of contemporary art exhibitions, film screenings and talks, and exhibitions organised by our curatorial students
Your future
The visual arts and culture industries have become an increasingly significant part of the national and international economy, and our art history graduates leave Essex with the skills to take advantage of this growing opportunity.
Graduates from our programmes are ideally prepared for roles in the media, in advertising, in museums and galleries, in education (in schools, universities, and cultural institutions), as conservators, as auctioneers, dealers and antiques specialists, in charities, in publishing, as specialist arts lawyers, as PR agents, in fashion, or to run their own galleries.
Our recent graduates have gone on to work for a wide range of high-profile companies including:
National Portrait Gallery
Victoria and Albert Museum
Sotheby's New York
Momart Ltd
John Lewis
We also offer research supervision for PhD and MPhil for those who want to continue with research. We cover the major areas of European art and architecture from 1300 to the present, as well as the art and architecture of Latin America and the United States.
We also work with the
university's Careers Services
to help you find out about further work experience, internships, placements, and voluntary opportunities.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
A 2:2 degree in any discipline with a minimum of 3 modules relating to visual culture:
Visual Culture modules include, but are not limited to:
Advertising
Aesthetics
Archaeology
Architecture
Art History
Curatorial/Museum Studies
Digital Imaging
English Literature
Fashion
Film Studies
Film and Literature
Fine Art
Graphic Design
History
Landscape Design
Media Studies
Photography
If you do not hold a degree which includes relevant modules, then we can still consider you. You should be able to show that you have relevant professional experience in one of the following fields:
Archaeological site
Fashion
Gallery
Museums
Publishing
Theatre
Other cultural institution
If you do not have a relevant degree or relevant experience, then we may ask you to provide a sample of written work which demonstrates your interest in this field.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If English is not your first language, we require IELTS 6.5 overall with a minimum
component score of 6.0 in writing and 5.5 in all other components.
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English
pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Additional Notes
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to
successfully complete a course at the University of Essex. Where appropriate, we may ask
for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
Structure
Course structure
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The following modules are based on the current course structure and may change in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Critique and Curating
(20 CREDITS)
Want to do more than hang pretty pictures on a pleasantly coloured wall? Then take this module to learn how curators and designers from the 1920s onward have turned exhibition spaces into site of social and political critique -- a practice now often subsumed under the concept of ‘critical curating’. Organised chronologically, the module gives you the chance to hone your understanding of the complex relationship between critique and curating, generally by situating major exhibitions and paradigmatic curatorial concept in relation to key texts of critical theory.
View Critique and Curating on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Collecting Art From Latin America
(20 CREDITS)
Get valuable real-life experience of the unique holdings at Essex Collection of Art from Latin America’s (ESCALA). As well as discussing and analysing artworks from the collection, take on the exciting challenge of proposing a new acquisition for ESCALA. Whilst the task is hypothetical, if the committee decides to pursue the acquisition, you could be credited for your contribution.
View Collecting Art From Latin America on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Practical Skills for Curatorial Work
(0 CREDITS)
This series of sessions teaches key real-world practical skills required for curatorial work in exhibitions and galleries, including object handling; condition reports; loan forms and database systems; artist relations; and the facilitation of group pedagogy and public workshops. You will be walked through the practical processes and skills which structure the organising and production cycle for galleries and museums, in a way that coincides with your own work towards the MA Curating group exhibition.
View Practical Skills for Curatorial Work on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE WITH OPTIONS
AR953-7-FY or Art History option
(20 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 05: OPTIONAL
Art History option(s)
(20 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 06: OPTIONAL
Art History option(s)
(40 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 07: COMPULSORY
Professional Placement
(0 CREDITS)
This module enables you to undertake a placement with an external Placement Provider. You will acquire effective work-based skills specific to your chosen field, and gain a detailed understanding of work processes. It’s an opportunity to put taught skills into practise and develop a network of industry professionals. Your placement is a sought-after contribution to your employability, giving you the tools employers look for in skilled graduates.
View Professional Placement on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 08: COMPULSORY
Seminar Series for Art HIstory
(0 CREDITS)
View Seminar Series for Art HIstory on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 09: COMPULSORY
Preparing for your Professional Placement (Provisional)
(0 CREDITS)
This full-year module prepares students who will undertake a professional placement towards the end of their first year. It is compulsory for those students undertaking a placement
View Preparing for your Professional Placement (Provisional) on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE WITH OPTIONS
AR952-7-FY or AR981-7-FY
(80 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Professional Placement
(120 CREDITS)
This module enables you to undertake a placement with an external Placement Provider. You will acquire effective work-based skills specific to your chosen field, and gain a detailed understanding of work processes. It’s an opportunity to put taught skills into practise and develop a network of industry professionals. Your placement is a sought-after contribution to your employability, giving you the tools employers look for in skilled graduates.
View Professional Placement on our Module Directory
Placement
You will complete a professional placement between the taught part of the course and the individual project. This professional placement allows you to gain work experience during your postgraduate studies.
Teaching
Postgraduate students in the School of Philosophical, Historical and Interdisciplinary Studies usually attend a one-hour lecture and one-hour seminar for each module each week or workshops.
Two-hour seminars with discussion based on a programme of reading
Gain practical experience in curating, such as handling and installing artworks
Frequent museum and gallery trips, and classes with active museum professionals
We run a number of mini-courses, research seminars and conferences that our postgraduates are encouraged to attend
Assessment
Assessment for our courses is normally on the basis of coursework and your supervised dissertation
Dissertation
In place of a dissertation, you work towards the preparation of an exhibition at our on-site
Art Exchange
gallery
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£10,500 per year
Year 2 fee is currently calculated at 40% of the Year 1 fee for the year in which the placement occurs.
International fee
£22,750 per year
Year 2 fee is currently calculated at 40% of the Year 1 fee for the year in which the placement occurs.
Fees will increase for each academic year of study.
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We hold
Open Days
for all our applicants throughout the year. Our Colchester Campus events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex, and give you the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
If the dates of our organised events aren’t suitable for you, feel free to get in touch by emailing
tours@essex.ac.uk
and we’ll arrange an individual campus tour for you.
Applying
You can
apply for this postgraduate course online
. Before you apply, please check our information about
necessary documents
that we'll ask you to provide as part of your application.
We aim to respond to applications within two weeks. If we are able to offer you a place, you will be contacted via email.
For information on our deadline to apply for this course, please see our ‘
how to apply
' information.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree
virtual tour
allows you to explore the Colchester Campus from the comfort of your home. Check out our accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Related courses
MA Curating
Study mode:
Full-time
Part-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Life at Essex
What it's like to live at Essex
Accommodation
Find your new home
Open Days
Come see for yourself
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website