Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG01407%2F1%2FMA-Childhood-Studies&auth=xA9T9xr%2FfiMzicooA2qu6g&profile=_default&rank=187&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
MA Childhood Studies
Postgraduate Course
MA Childhood Studies
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Part Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Childhood Studies
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies
Our MA Childhood Studies offers a unique psychosocial focus, seeking to understand not only the outer social experience of children but also their complex inner, emotional worlds.
Building upon our existing expertise in postgraduate courses like
refugee care
,
psychoanalytic studies
and
psychodynamic counselling
, this programme offers much more than you would find in other MA Childhood Studies courses.
Our inherently interdisciplinary programme is rooted in psychosocial, sociological and psychodynamic approaches. Drawing on the history of Childhood Studies and the best contemporary research, including the excellent research and practice experience of our academics, modules will explore a variety of subjects, including:
Families and peer relationships
Emotions and the inner worlds of children
Education
The role of play and leisure
Generation and intergenerational relationships
Gender and sexuality
Race and ethnicity
Cross-cultural experiences of childhood
Children, popular culture and literature,
Children with disabilities
Children and the state
Ethical research with children and young people
Spaces and places of children's lives
Intersectionality
Our MA Childhood Studies programme will equip you for a career in sectors including education, health, international fields such as the charitable sector and NGOs, social care including children's homes, therapeutic communities and supporting children and their families. This course is available to study full-time or part-time, and also acts as a stepping stone to further qualifications in specific professions such as social work or counselling as well as
PhD study.
If you're committed to understanding the child as a whole, incorporating their complex emotional worlds, and want to use this knowledge to improve the experience of children in a variety of settings, welcome home.
Why we're great.
Our unique interdisciplinary approach combines psychosocial, sociological and psychodynamic approaches
You'll be taught by lecturers who bring both academic and practical knowledge from years of working with children
Close links with health, education and social care services ensures our courses are highly credible
Our expert staff
Within Childhood Studies, our faculty are specialists in some key research areas, including: childhood geographies; relational and psychosocial approaches to childhood; childhood and popular culture; postcolonial and decolonial theory; critical methodologies for research with children; children's learning and education; feminist and queer theory; child psychoanalysis; YA literature and film; the social history of childhood; and critical race studies. As active writers and researchers, we are on the cutting edge of current trends in our field and publish regularly in leading academic journals like:
Children and Society, History of the Human Sciences, Sexualities, Psychoanalysis, Culture, and Society, Sociological Research Online, Studies in Gender and Sexuality,
and
Psychoanalysis and History.
Check out three of our recent publications
here
,
here
and
here
.
Our Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies is internationally recognised as one of the leading departments for work that focuses on the role of the unconscious mind in mental health, as well as in culture and society generally. Our research and teaching is deeply grounded in the highest standards of academic thinking and derived from clinical practice.
Being part of a leading university in the study of social sciences means you are surrounded by strong departments that fully support and enhance our work. This allows you to gain the opportunity to work with and be taught by senior clinicians and world-class scholars in their fields.
Specialist facilities
If you are studying within our Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies, you will have access to our extensive facilities to aid your learning and research. In particular, our Albert Sloman Library is well stocked with books, journals, electronic resources and major archives relevant to our work and, in addition, we have our own library of specialist books and journals.
Our Centre for Childhood Studies will offer a unique, international experience for students and staff, developing a collegiate research culture that is based on theoretically-applied research, relevant for child-focused academics, clinicians and policymakers. With regular internationally acclaimed speakers, postgraduate students will enhance their theoretical understanding, knowledge, and practical experience with children and young people, being a part of a learning community that is dedicated to the development of cutting edge research.
We hold free evening
Open Seminars
, which are open to students, staff and members of the public.
Your future
You will develop key employability skills including thinking analytically, evaluation, essay-writing, research methods in psychoanalysis and an understanding of psychoanalytic thinking, applicable to clinical and academic work. Our MA Childhood Studies will equip you for a career in sectors including education, health, international fields such as the charitable sector and NGOs, social care including children's homes, therapeutic communities and supporting children and their families. This course also acts as a stepping stone to further qualifications in specific professions such as social work or counselling as well as
PhD study.
"The MA in Childhood Studies equipped me with a unique interdisciplinary and psychosocial understanding of childhood and youth through the lens of psychoanalysis, sociology, and psychology. Through this comprehensive approach to understanding experiences, I was able to weave the various social, cultural, historical, and political processes and structures with the complex inner worlds of children and young people”
Ameya Jain, MA Childhood Studies 2022-2023
"As a BA Childhood Studies graduate I could not wait to join the MA and explore the field of Childhood Studies further within the Psychoanalytic and Psychosocial Department at Essex; and the exciting modules offered. I believe this is still a young and vibrant field with opportunities for us (MA Students) to really contribute to the future of Childhood Studies. My course was filled with inspiring students from many academic backgrounds and lecturers. This is an opportunity to study Childhood Studies in a unique environment where inner and outer world's meet. I enjoyed the many opportunities to attend fabulous guest lectures and inter departmental events, broadening and enhancing my overall experience”
Rachel Bown, MA Childhood Studies 2021-2022
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
A 2:2 degree or international equivalent in one of the following subjects:
Anthropology
Childhood Studies
Classics and Ancient History
Communication and Media Studies
Counselling
Creative Writing
Criminology
Drama and Theatre Studies
Early Years Studies
Economics
Film Studies
Health and Social Care
History
History of Art
International Relations
Journalism
Languages
Law
Literature and English
Nursing
Philosophy
Politics and Government Studies
Psychology
Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies
Social Policy
Social Work
Sociology
Teaching and Education
Youth Work
With your online application you must submit a personal statement; this should detail the reasons for wanting to study the course, including any relevant experience (work or voluntary) that may support your application.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If English is not your first language, we require IELTS 6.5 overall with a minimum
component score of 5.5 in all components.
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English
pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Additional Notes
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to
successfully complete a course at the University of Essex. Where appropriate, we may ask
for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
Structure
Course structure
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Critical Debates in Childhood and Childhood Studies
(30 CREDITS)
This module draws predominantly on psychosocial studies, sociology, and childhood studies and aims to explore and respond to debates at the forefront of childhood studies and of the experience of being a child. The historical development of both childhood studies and the concept of `children` and `childhood` are outlined and you are introduced to core disciplines including developmental psychology, psychoanalysis and sociology.

You will be encouraged to reflect upon the position of certain bodies of knowledge within the field of childhood studies. This includes analysing the figure of the child embodied within each disciplinary approach and interrogating how this is manifest in theory and in children`s everyday lives. The module will use this foundation to go on to discuss core aspects of the conceptual frameworks which guide or govern childhood studies including agency, subjects, actors, relationality, and generation. Included crucially here are approaches to the rights, voices and participation of children.
View Critical Debates in Childhood and Childhood Studies on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Research with Children and Young People
(30 CREDITS)
This module introduces students to the philosophies and practical tools which characterise research with children to enable students to undertake primary research in their dissertations and future professions. 
The module considers a range of methodological approaches to both quantitative and qualitative research. Specific tools such as surveys and questionnaires, observation, interviews, focus groups, ethnographic approaches, and virtual approaches, are examined and practiced. You will critically consider ethical issues in research with children, adult and child power relations, and spaces and places of research with children and young people, including schools, children's homes and the therapeutic space.
View Research with Children and Young People on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Children’s Emotional Worlds
(15 CREDITS)
The study of emotions in the social sciences was a once relatively neglected field and now is one burgeoning with a huge diversity of different perspectives, approaches, and priorities. This module will explore how such understandings of emotions as social, developmental, individual, unconscious, discursive, and collective are applied to the study of childhood and to children's experiences.

Within this module you will be introduced to the historical study of emotions in sociology and consider how children`s emotional development is framed in developmental psychology, psychoanalytic studies and neuroscience perspectives. The module will explicitly propose and consider the benefits of a psychosocial approach to understanding children's emotions and apply such perspectives to a range of topical issues in relation to children`s emotional experiences, wellbeing, and mental health.
View Children’s Emotional Worlds on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Geographies of Childhood and Youth
(15 CREDITS)
This module `Geographies of Children and Youth` will critically examine the diverse experiences of children and young people across time and space and consider how the discursive and material construction of childhood is shaped by these geographical concepts. Theoretical frameworks such as post-structuralism, post-colonialism, and critical race theory will be deployed to examine core issues in childhood studies such as home and homelessness, institutions and the institutionalisation of childhood, the street, cultural and community participation, and nation and nationhood. A critical approach to children`s rights is adopted throughout, taking a rights-respecting approach while evaluating the articulation and application of rights to diverse childhoods and children`s lived experiences.
View Geographies of Childhood and Youth on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY WITH OPTIONS
Option from list
(20 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Relational Childhoods
(15 CREDITS)
The sociology of childhood emerged in the latter part of the twentieth century, developing the well- established paradigm of the social construction of childhood to examine the active construction of children`s lives, the lives of those around them and of the societies in which they live.

This module on `Relational Childhoods` will critically explore the dominant theoretical assumptions that lie behind the social construction of childhood, developing an interdisciplinary perspective that can integrate the relational aspects of three related disciplines, sociology, developmental psychology and psychoanalysis. Relational concepts such as `habitus`, `love and learning` and `interdependencies` will be used to examine core issues in childhood studies such as parenting in families and educational institutions.
View Relational Childhoods on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: CORE
Dissertation - Childhood Studies
(60 CREDITS)
This module provides the framework for students to complete their dissertation projects. Dissertations are an important and represent an intellectual journey where students can apply the knowledge gained and use this in a creative way to deepen understanding of themes and issues they are interested in.

Time and energy can be devoted, in a supported environment, to demonstrate something significant about your insights and understanding. It can be thought of as the culmination of your course. Although you should be thinking and working on dissertations by developing ideas and exploring literature throughout the year it will be mainly written over the summer term and summer vacation period. Throughout this time you will be supported by your dissertation supervisor.
View Dissertation - Childhood Studies on our Module Directory
Teaching
Postgraduate students in the Department of Psychosocial and Psychoanalytic Studies typically have 2 hours of contact time for each module per week. This consists of a two-hour seminar or workshop, or a one-hour lecture and a one-hour seminar.
Teaching takes place in relatively small seminars and fora, with a focus on group discussion
You also have a personal tutor who advises you about your work on an individual basis
Assessment
For most modules, assessment is by coursework only, typically an essay of between 3,000-5,000 words
Dissertation
You develop a dissertation of 12,000 words, in which you define and research into an area of special interest to you
We provide you with advice and guidance on researching and writing your dissertation
Your dissertation is submitted mid-September in your final year of study
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£10,500
International fee
£22,750
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We hold
Open Days
for all our applicants throughout the year. Our Colchester Campus events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex, and give you the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
If the dates of our organised events aren’t suitable for you, feel free to get in touch by emailing
tours@essex.ac.uk
and we’ll arrange an individual campus tour for you.
Applying
You can
apply for this postgraduate course online
. Before you apply, please check our information about
necessary documents
that we'll ask you to provide as part of your application.
We aim to respond to applications within two weeks. If we are able to offer you a place, you will be contacted via email.
For information on our deadline to apply for this course, please see our ‘
how to apply
' information.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree
virtual tour
allows you to explore the Colchester Campus from the comfort of your home. Check out our accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Life at Essex
What it's like to live at Essex
Accommodation
Find your new home
Open Days
Come see for yourself
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website