Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG01466%2F1%2FMA-Economics-with-Public-Policy&auth=MAbjdUKe%2Ffn0rB3R0Adsyw&profile=_default&rank=327&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
MA Economics with Public Policy
Postgraduate Course
MA Economics with Public Policy
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Part Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Economics with Public Policy
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Economics
Are you fascinated by both economic and political processes behind public policy decision-making? Do you wish to develop a critical understanding of government processes and their results? Would you like to combine your interests in economics and politics?
In our MA Economics with Public Policy, you'll build an in-depth understanding of the key areas of economics and all aspects of public policy through studying topics such as: the foundations of public policy, microeconomics and econometrics methods and evaluating public policy. You'll also have the option to explore topics in public policy related to core economics issues, such as policy surrounding financial markets.
Through studying MA Economics and Public Policy, you'll be equipped with an indispensable skillset in critical thinking, communication and argument development and analytics, which are highly sought after by employers today.
You will work with experts from within our
Department of Economics.
We are 4th in UK for research power in economics and econometrics (Times Higher Education research power measure, Research Excellence Framework 2021). In addition to our
Department of Government,
who are 6th in UK for research power in politics and international studies (Times Higher Education research power measure, Research Excellence Framework 2021).
Why we're great.
We connect our research with our teaching so what you learn about is relevant today.
Benefit from academic expertise from both the Department of Economics and Department of Government.
We are 4th in UK for research power in economics and econometrics (Times Higher Education research power measure, Research Excellence Framework 2021).
Our expert staff
You'll learn from and contribute to world-leading research in our Department of Economics and Department of Government.
Our economic researchers are at the forefront of their field and have even received MBEs, with students coming from across the globe to study, research or work with us, whilst the Department of Government boasts some of the biggest names in their field of work, giving you unparalleled access to some of the best minds in politics.
Specialist facilities
Take advantage of our wide range of learning resources to assist you in your studies:
Extensive software for quantitative analysis is available in all computer labs across the university
Work with researchers to learn how to conduct experiments from start to finish, as a lab assistant in ESSEXLab, our state-of-the-art social science experimental lab
Access a variety of economics databases and multiple copies of textbooks and e-books in the
Albert Sloman Library
Your future
After completing your masters, you may wish to extend your knowledge with a research degree – many Essex graduates decide to stay here for further study.
Alternatively, our MA Economics with Public Policy will help you develop key employability skills which will make you attractive within both public and private sector roles, including analytical awareness, critical thinking, research and communication skills.
Our recent Master's level Economics graduates have gone on to work for a range of high-profile organisations like the Bank of England and the International Monetary Fund.
We also work with the university's
Student Development Team
to help you find out about further work experience, internships, placements, and voluntary opportunities.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
A 2:2 degree in any discipline. Your degree must include at least one module in one of these subjects:
Accounting
Economics
Business
Finance
Management
Maths
Statistics
We will also consider applicants with any other 2:2 degree or above where there is one year's relevant work experience after graduating.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If English is not your first language, we require IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum
score of 5.5 in all components.
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English
pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Additional Notes
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to
successfully complete a course at the University of Essex. Where appropriate, we may ask
for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
Structure
Course structure
We offer a flexible course structure with a mixture of core/compulsory modules, and optional modules chosen from lists.
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The course content is therefore reviewed on an annual basis to ensure our courses remain up-to-date so modules listed are subject to change.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Dissertation
(40 CREDITS)
What interests you? Undertake a research project of your choosing, studying a specific economic issue or set of problems in depth, with supervision from our world-leading academic staff. Gain experience of original and independent work, making use of and building on skills that you have acquired during your Masters.
View Dissertation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Introductory Microeconomics
(20 CREDITS)
Microeconomics studies the economic behaviour of individual economic decision makers such as consumers, workers, firms, or managers. You will be looking at decision-making and markets when all agents have perfect information about goods and prices and individual agents cannot affect prices through their own actions. Later in the module you will turn to the concept of market equilibrium with more detailed understanding of demand and supply in order to derive properties of market behaviour.
View Introductory Microeconomics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Introductory Econometrics
(20 CREDITS)
This module provides an introduction to the econometric methods commonly used to analyse economic data and the application of these methods. The focus of the module is on linear regression and the ordinary least squares (OLS) estimation procedure. This is introduced after a review of basic probability, random variables, simple descriptive statistics and the concept of the null hypothesis.
View Introductory Econometrics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Public Policy Evaluation
(20 CREDITS)
This module equips you with the tools commonly used in economics to critically assess the efficacy of current policies and the effects of policy changes. You will put  theoretical knowledge into practice, closely reviewing canonical applications of these tools in the economics literature as well as performing evaluations yourself.
View Public Policy Evaluation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Foundations of Public Policy
(15 CREDITS)
This module introduces you to key concepts and theoretical approaches to studying and analysing public policy as well as applying these concepts and approaches to real-world public policy areas. This includes the economic, theoretical and normative foundations for public policies, theories of the public policy process and the actors and institutions involved in this process as well as approaches to studying the politics and political dilemmas regarding public policy. You will also be introduced and apply these concepts to real-world policy areas including education, pollution and taxation.
View Foundations of Public Policy on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
The Politics of Public Policy
(15 CREDITS)
The module “The Politics of Public Policy” provides a comprehensive overview of the key players and institutions that shape the policy-making process. You will study theories and evidence surrounding the creation of policies and explore the impact of political actors, institutions, and strategies on the formation and implementation of public policy. Through the examination of advocacy coalitions, policy networks, and the influence of ideas, beliefs, and interests, you will gain a deeper understanding of the relationships between state and private actors and the role of interest intermediation and lobbying in shaping public policy. The course also focuses on the interactions between legislative and executive branches of government, as well as the influence of international institutions and policy diffusion beyond the nation state. By the end of the course, you will have a well-rounded knowledge of the complex and dynamic politics of public policy and will be able to analyse specific policy processes using the tools and approaches covered in the module.
View The Politics of Public Policy on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: COMPULSORY
Lectures in Economic and Public Policy
(10 CREDITS)
This policy-oriented module probes the role and limits of government interventions in the microeconomic management of developed economies. In so doing, the analysis emphasises: (i) examination of the most common market failures and evaluation of options available for government to address them; and (ii) the factors that determine the choice and design of economic and regulatory policies to address these market failures given governments' political objectives. The module then goes on to explore the emergence of government failures and the reasons why the interactions between economics and politics impose constraints on the design of public policies, thereby enabling you to appreciate the associated policy issues and trade-offs.
View Lectures in Economic and Public Policy on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 08: OPTIONAL
Option from list
(20 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 09: OPTIONAL
Option from list
(20 CREDITS)
Teaching
Postgraduate students in the Department of Economics typically attend a two-hour lecture and a one-hour class or lab for each module per week.
Core components can be combined with optional modules to enable you to gain either in-depth specialisation or a breadth of understanding across several topics
Our postgraduates are encouraged to attend conferences and seminars
Assessment
Each module is assessed with a final examination and a coursework component
Coursework is taken in the form of a term paper or a midterm test
Dissertation
You undertake an individually supervised research project that involves the in-depth study of a specific economic problem or issue
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£15,000
International fee
£23,500
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We hold
Open Days
for all our applicants throughout the year. Our Colchester Campus events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex, and give you the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
If the dates of our organised events aren’t suitable for you, feel free to get in touch by emailing
tours@essex.ac.uk
and we’ll arrange an individual campus tour for you.
Applying
You can
apply for this postgraduate course online
. Before you apply, please check our information about
necessary documents
that we'll ask you to provide as part of your application.
We aim to respond to applications within two weeks. If we are able to offer you a place, you will be contacted via email.
For information on our deadline to apply for this course, please see our ‘
how to apply
' information.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree
virtual tour
allows you to explore the Colchester Campus from the comfort of your home. Check out our accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Life at Essex
What it's like to live at Essex
Accommodation
Find your new home
Open Days
Come see for yourself
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website