Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG00815%2F1%2FMA-Teaching-English-to-Speakers-of-Other-Languages-TESOL&auth=cz80kKHnCjLVvsM4hNo1nQ&profile=_default&rank=345&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
MA Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL)
Postgraduate Course
MA Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages
(TESOL)
Start date
January 2025
October 2025
January 2026
Study mode
Full Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL)
Start date:
January 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Language and Linguistics
This is a Masters course that can take you into employment anywhere in the world.
If you are enthusiastic about teaching English to speakers of other languages, then our course offers you vocationally-relevant, research-led training of the highest quality, taught by academics known for their teaching excellence.
You explore teaching methods and the description of English used in the investigation of language learning and teaching, and study additional topics according to your needs. These might include:
How second language learners acquire the four skills as well as language systems
How the four skills, vocabulary and grammar can be taught
How language learning can be assessed and tested
How different aspects of the psychology of language learners and teachers influence learning and classroom practice
How language lessons are planned, how materials are evaluated and designed, and how language classrooms can be managed
You also gain hands-on teaching experience through our one-term Teaching Practice module.
Whether you have no prior teaching experience or are already an English language teacher, this course can be adapted to suit you. If you have little or no previous teaching experience, you receive ‘hands on' teaching practice throughout our teaching practice module, while if you already have substantial teaching experience, you can undertake specialist study through our educational leadership and management options instead
You'll be part of our
Centre for Research in Language Development throughout the Lifespan
(LaDeLi), a unique research centre specialising in all aspects of language learning and development.
We are 1st in UK for research impact in modern languages and linguistics (Grade Point Average, Research Excellence Framework 2021). We're top 25 in the UK for linguistics in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2024.
If you want a global outlook, are interested in human communication, and want to study for a degree with real-world practical value in an established department, welcome to Essex.
This course is available with a January and October entry point. Part-time study is only available for the October entry point.
Why we're great.
Perfect the skills to take on a TESOL role anywhere in the world
Study in our world-renowned  language and linguistics department, ranked 1st in UK for research impact in modern languages and linguistics (Grade Point Average, Research Excellence Framework 2021).
Enjoy the flexibility of a course which adapts to suit your needs and builds on your experience
Our expert staff
Our staff
are internationally renowned and our research has demonstrable impact, leading to our department being recognised as 1st in terms of research impact (REF 2021). We maintain excellent student-staff ratios, and we integrate language learning with linguistics wherever there is synergy.
In applied linguistics Karen Roehr-Brackin and Adela Gánem-Gutiérrez focus on the learning of second and further languages, whilst Tracey Costley, Christina Gkonou, Neophytos Mitsigkas and Nasser Jabbari focus on issues to do with the classroom teaching of English as a foreign language.
Christina Gkonou has conducted extensive research into the effects of individual factors like anxiety on success in language learning and teaching, and Tracey Costley has taught English in Europe and the Far East for many years before coming to Essex, with ongoing research.
Karen Roehr-Brackin is a leading expert on the relationship between metalinguistic knowledge (conscious awareness of the rules of language) and language learning ability, and Adela Gánem-Gutiérrez is a leading expert on the use of computers and the role that interaction in the classroom plays in language learning. Florence Myles authored the best-selling
Second Language Learning Theories.
Specialist facilities
The study of linguistics provides the opportunity for plenty of hands-on experience as well as theoretical work. You might be listening to interviews, studying language processing, or analysing sounds, so we provide extensive facilities to allow you to fully engage with a wide variety of linguistics methods:
Our Eye-Tracking Lab has equipment for monitoring responses times and eye movements when individuals are presented with pictures and videos.
Our Psycholinguistics Lab has computing facilities for measuring how long it takes individuals to reach to words, texts and sounds.
Our Linguistics Lab is where we run behavioural experiments.
Our EEG Lab is used for recording brain activity during reading, listening or watching video of language materials.
Within our department we also offer:
An exciting programme of
research seminars and other events
Our
Languages for All
programme offers you the opportunity to study an additional language alongside your course at no extra cost
Our
Albert Sloman Library
houses a strong collection of books, journals, electronic resources and major archives.
Meet other language enthusiasts through out student-run Linguistics Society.
Your future
Takers of our MA TESOL come with the specific intention of entering the ELT/TESOL profession, which they duly go on to do.
Experiences English language teachers also join us to update their expertise and return to the classroom with a career enhancement.
The specialist knowledge you gain enables you to take senior or specialist roles, not necessarily only in the classroom but also in educational advice and management, programme evaluation, syllabus design and teacher education.
We also work with the University's
Careers Services
to help you find out about further work experience, internships, placements, and voluntary opportunities.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
A 2:2 degree, or international equivalent, in Education, English Language and Literature, English Language Studies, Linguistics, Modern Languages or Teaching (English).
You may also be considered with a lower-class degree if you have teaching experience or if you have a 2:2 degree in an unrelated area but which contains a substantial element of English language, language education, linguistics, language studies or language teaching, or who can demonstrate a personal or professional interest or expertise in English and/or English language teaching.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If English is not your first language, we require IELTS 6.5 overall with a minimum
component score of 6.0 in writing and 5.5 in all other components.
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English
pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Additional Notes
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to
successfully complete a course at the University of Essex. Where appropriate, we may ask
for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
Structure
Course structure
Most of our courses combine compulsory and optional modules, giving you freedom to pursue your own interests. The purpose of the list of modules below is to illustrate the range and variety of topics available on this course. Depending on the course structure, you are able to choose between many of these modules to tailor your study to your individual interests.
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The course content is therefore reviewed on an annual basis to ensure our courses remain up-to-date so modules listed are subject to change.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Research Methods
(15 CREDITS)
What are research methods? What are the differences between quantitative and qualitative research? Learn more about the research tools available for studying applied linguistics and TEFL. Examine each available research method in-depth. Build your understanding, while preparing for your MA dissertation or other future research projects.
View Research Methods on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Educational Leadership and Management
(15 CREDITS)
Reflect on your experiences as a teacher and consider how you could optimise your teaching to meet your learners’ needs and your own. This module will include small-group discussions and input sessions, so you really have the opportunity to reflect on your individual practices and career.
View Educational Leadership and Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY WITH OPTIONS
LG504-7-SP or LG657-7-SP
(15 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 04: OPTIONAL
Linguistics option from list
(15 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
MA Dissertation
(0 CREDITS)
What interests you? Write a 16,000-word dissertation on a research topic of your choosing, with supervision from our expert staff. Gain research planning, organisational and project management skills while increasing your knowledge of the subject.  Build your research abilities for future employment or a PhD.
View MA Dissertation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE
MA Dissertation
(60 CREDITS)
What interests you? Write a 16,000-word dissertation on a research topic of your choosing, with supervision from our expert staff. Gain research planning, organisational and project management skills while increasing your knowledge of the subject.  Build your research abilities for future employment or a PhD.
View MA Dissertation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Teaching, Reading, Writing, Listening and Speaking in TEFL/TESOL
(15 CREDITS)
The module aims to explore some of the different ways in which theories have shaped and informed the different approaches to the teaching of reading and writing in English Language Teaching (ELT). By studying these ideas you will deepen your understanding of the different ways in which reading and writing is understood and conceptualised, and give you a theoretical platform from which to consider, and reflect upon, your own experiences and approaches to teaching reading and writing.
View Teaching, Reading, Writing, Listening and Speaking in TEFL/TESOL on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Language Learning and Teaching
(15 CREDITS)
The purpose of this module is to introduce you to the main approaches and methods used in English Language Teaching (ELT). You will study the different theoretical and historical contexts of language teaching and look at how these different approaches and methods have shaped pedagogy, practice and course design. You will explore key aspects of teacher development such as professional identity, teacher language and teacher psychology and look at the different ways in which these influence and shape teaching practice.
View Language Learning and Teaching on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Teaching Younger Learners
(15 CREDITS)
This module will introduce students to the fundamentals of Teaching English to Young Learners, referring to children and adolescents. You’ll become familiar with theories surrounding language acquisition among children and the different aspects of their psychology in instructed classroom settings. You will also consider how young learners' language skills could be assessed and tested.
View Teaching Younger Learners on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: OPTIONAL
Linguistics option from list
(15 CREDITS)
Teaching
Postgraduate students of English Language and Linguistics would typically attend a two-hour teaching event for each module every week. Seminars would usually have about 20 students.
Postgraduate students of translation modules typically involve two hours of classes per week. Interpreting modules typically involve four hours of classes per week. Classes usually contain up to 20 students within each group.
Teaching methods include lectures, demonstrations and learning by teaching others
We run a weekly departmental seminar, attended by both staff and students
Assessment
Your eight one-term modules are assessed by coursework and you are also assessed on your dissertation
Dissertation
Your 12,000-word dissertation allows you to focus in-depth on your chosen topic from April onwards
Close supervision by a member of staff within our Department
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£10,000
International fee
£21,700
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We hold
Open Days
for all our applicants throughout the year. Our Colchester Campus events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex, and give you the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
If the dates of our organised events aren’t suitable for you, feel free to get in touch by emailing
tours@essex.ac.uk
and we’ll arrange an individual campus tour for you.
Applying
You can
apply for this postgraduate course online
. Before you apply, please check our information about
necessary documents
that we'll ask you to provide as part of your application.
We aim to respond to applications within two weeks. If we are able to offer you a place, you will be contacted via email.
For information on our deadline to apply for this course, please see our ‘
how to apply
' information.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree
virtual tour
allows you to explore the Colchester Campus from the comfort of your home. Check out our accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Open Days
Come see for yourself
Read all about it
Get a prospectus
Study at Essex
Find a course
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website