Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG01101%2F2%2FMaster-of-Business-Management-MBM&auth=HPGRoXfsz%2FQxUa0qahq9Jg&profile=_default&rank=156&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
Master of Business Management MBM
Postgraduate Course
Master of Business Management MBM
Start date
January 2025
October 2025
January 2026
Study mode
Full Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
MBM
Start date:
January 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year
Location:
Southend Campus
Based in:
Essex Business School
Do you want a fast-paced career in management? Are you looking for a business Masters to develop your operational management skills and strategic knowledge?
During periods of economic uncertainty, businesses require managers who are agile, collaborative and can deliver better outcomes in times of crisis. This Master of Business Management degree is a broad business and applied management Masters, which is designed to reflect the current business landscape and give you the edge in applying for well-paid managerial positions. It is open to those without a degree in business, as well as those already in work, but without the necessary experience to undertake an
MBA
.
Our Master of Business Management (MBM) provides knowledge of the main functional areas within organisations, their structure and processes and the changing environments they operate in. We develop your quantitative skills in analysing financial data, so you can make informed decisions to solve complex business challenges.
You learn how to formulate strategies to meet performance objectives, as well as how to manage and allocate resources to sustain competitive advantage. You explore how to run business operations effectively in cross-cultural settings and explore the process of creating your own entrepreneurial venture.
Study areas may include:
strategic management and leadership
financial decision making for managers, including financial and management accounting
supply chain and operations management
international marketing
human resources management
business research and consultancy
managerial economics
entrepreneurship
We help you to reach your leadership potential by developing your transferable skills in:
teamwork
negotiation
networking
problem-solving
project management
critical thinking
communication, including engaging with different stakeholders
During your course, you apply your business knowledge and strategic management skills to undertake a dissertation in an area of your choice.
This course is delivered by
Essex Business School
at our
Southend Campus
.  Our School is home to an international community of students and staff and our students join us across our two campuses from more than 40 different nationalities.
This course is available to study starting in January or October and can be studied on a full or part-time basis. You may be eligible for
scholarships and discounts
, including those for students joining us from overseas.
Why we're great.
Choose between starting your course in October or January and take optional modules to tailor a Masters degree that is unique to you.
Develop a suite of practical management skills from leading data and business experts.
A great choice for those without a degree in business, or those already in work, but without the necessary experience to undertake an MBA.
Our expert staff
Our
expert staff
have world-class research reputations. They're at the forefront of real-world data, management and entrepreneurial issues, ensuring you experience the very latest teaching and thinking to prepare you for the modern business world.
Our staff specialise in areas including:
internationalisation
innovation
new product development
human resource management
management science and data analytics
leadership and strategy
organisation studies
ethics
social responsibility
sustainability
data analytics
Our academic staff are active members of the School's
Strategy, Operations and Entrepreneurship Group
, which carries out cutting-edge research into issues affecting the sustainable growth of business, society and the economy.
Many are also part of the national
Business and Local Government Data Research Centre
, which is based at our Colchester Campus and carries out research into issues impacting entrepreneurship and innovation, such as local economic growth and access to broadband. Not only does the centre have expert data analytics facilities, but you're also taught by academics who are actively involved in researching big data and collaborating with businesses to solve real-world issues.
When you join our school, you will benefit from world-leading research being conducted by our senior academic staff, like Professor of Technology Strategy
Suma Athreye
. Her teaching is informed by her work around the evolution of technology markets, inclusive innovation and international research and development management. She has consulted with the World Intellectual Property Organisation and is on the Editorial Board of the Innovation and Development and Multinational Business Review. She also advises the Big Innovation Centre.
Academic staff at our Southend campus also contribute to research for the
Centre for Research on Entrepreneurship Innovation Management and Internationalisation (REIMI)
which specialises in interrogating the research and practice of entrepreneurship, international management and innovation.
Specialist facilities
Our Masters of Business Management (MBM) is taught at our
Southend Campus
, just 40 minutes from the City of London and in the heart of the Thames Gateway - one of the Government's priority areas for economic growth, offering fantastic internship and networking opportunities.
Essex has the highest number of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the UK – meaning you are ideally located when it comes to finding entrepreneurial organisations that could potentially be used as case studies in your assessments, particularly your final business research project.
Southend-on-Sea combines the charms of a traditional seaside resort with the attractions of a vibrant, modern town and our campus sits right at the centre.  With seven miles of coastline, a thriving arts and cultural scene and a wide variety of restaurants and nightlife all on your doorstep, it's the perfect place to live and study.  Our town centre location has excellent transport links and London Southend Airport is just five minutes away by train, offering flights to over 50 destinations across Europe.
When you choose our Southend Campus for your studies, you'll have access to a superb learning environment with state-of-the-art
facilities
, including:
24-hour Learning Hub with computer suites and study pods
extensive public and academic library
student services desk
modern lecture theatres and seminar rooms
employment
support, events and initiatives
study skills
advice
Faith Centre
our cosy SU Lounge, with pool tables and large-screen TV for socialising and relaxation
Your future
Our Master of Business Management (MBM) equips you with the essential analytic and problem solving skills required to launch a successful career as a manager or consultant in the private or public sectors. Inspired by your studies, you may also decide to follow in the footsteps of our successful student entrepreneurs and launch your own business. Recent graduate startups include international business incubator 0100Ventures and entrepreneurship website SlovakSTARTUP.
We work with the University's
Careers Services
to help you find out about further work experience, internships, placements, and voluntary opportunities.
Read our
graduate profiles
to find out the types of organisations our Masters students go on to work for.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
A 2:2 degree or international equivalent, in any discipline.
We will also consider applicants who hold a professional qualification such as a CIM, CIPD or CMI
and
two years' relevant Professional or Managerial experience.
You may also be considered with a lower class degree, where you have
at least three year’s
relevant work experience (please provide your CV in your application).
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If English is not your first language, we require IELTS 6.5 overall with a minimum score of  5.5 in all components.
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English
pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Additional Notes
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to
successfully complete a course at the University of Essex. Where appropriate, we may ask
for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
Structure
Course structure
We offer a flexible course structure with a mixture of core/compulsory modules, and optional modules chosen from lists.
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The following modules are based on the current course structure and may change in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, such as in response to COVID-19, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Creating and Managing the Digital Entrepreneurial Organisation
(15 CREDITS)
This module helps you to identify and understand the main business functions that can support an entrepreneur when determining whether there is sufficient opportunity to launch a new venture.  You acquire the critical, transferable and practical skills required to create or manage a new or entrepreneurial organisation. You explore how new businesses are developed and managed, including spin-offs from large firms and social enterprises, and learn how to identify new business opportunities. Topics include: idea generation; the development of business models; networking; marketing; finance; human resource management; customer relationship management and driving growth.
View Creating and Managing the Digital Entrepreneurial Organisation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Strategic Management
(15 CREDITS)
This module explores how to develop profitable business strategies. You learn how to analyse a firm’s external environment, including examining the economy and its competitors, assess its internal resources and set objectives. You examine the differences between corporate, competitive and functional business strategies and develop your decision making and analytical skills. By the end of the module, you understand how a manger can shape a firm’s direction to meet its goals and stakeholder expectations.
View Strategic Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Organisation and Leadership in a Globalised World
(15 CREDITS)
Examine past and new approaches in relation to the study of organisations and draw relevant connections between organisational theory and practice and other sub-disciplines of management, sociology, and economics, where issues of learning, collaboration and networks are given particular attention. You explore the role of people and human behaviour alongside the study of systems, functions, and models.
View Organisation and Leadership in a Globalised World on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Research Methods
(15 CREDITS)
Gain the key skills and competencies to carry out management research or prepare a comprehensive business plan, suitable for the completion of a Masters level programme. You address the philosophical issues underlying management research, and discover how to select methods and judge the quality and value of research outcomes.
View Research Methods on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: CORE
Dissertation
(0 CREDITS)
This module develops your ability to conduct independent business and management research, using a range of methodologies for data collection and analysis. You learn how to plan, conduct and manage original research in an area of your choice and communicate your findings through a 9,000 word dissertation. The project gives you the chance to apply your business knowledge and strategic management skills.
View Dissertation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: OPTIONAL
Option from list
(15 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Dissertation
(45 CREDITS)
This module develops your ability to conduct independent business and management research, using a range of methodologies for data collection and analysis. You learn how to plan, conduct and manage original research in an area of your choice and communicate your findings through a 9,000 word dissertation. The project gives you the chance to apply your business knowledge and strategic management skills.
View Dissertation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Managerial Economics
(15 CREDITS)
Managerial Economics applies economic theory to business management, decision making and forward planning.  This module explores how economic concepts, such as profit, demand, cost, pricing production, competition and business cycles, can be used to solve business problems.
View Managerial Economics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Global Supply Chain and Operations Management
(15 CREDITS)
Matching the ability to supply a product or service with customer demand is vital for any organisation. Excess supply can lead to wastage and increased costs, but too little can irritate customers and result in lost revenue. Supply chain management is a complex and challenging task, but, done right, it can create significant competitive advantage. This module explores how organisations manage their product range and operations to best align supply with demand in a global environment, categorised by expanding product variety, increasing outsourcing, and continuous advances in business analytics. You explore areas such as industry competition, resource allocation, organisational learning and competitive dynamics.
View Global Supply Chain and Operations Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Financial Analysis and Decision Making
(15 CREDITS)
This module equips you with a practical and critical understanding of financial analysis and the decision making of divisional and functional managers. You explore topics such as financial accounting, management accounting and financial management, including how to prepare financial accounts. You learn how accounting information is used to plan, monitor and make decisions and how financial statements can be used to infer business performance.
View Financial Analysis and Decision Making on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Digital Marketing and Social Media
(15 CREDITS)
This module focuses on the impact of 'digital' on the world of Marketing. You explore the changing nature of business and consumer behaviour, communication, and market research. You will investigate current practical and theoretical issues within Digital Marketing and Social Media.

You will study the academic field concerned with marketing and digital media and the challenges and opportunities it affords to marketers, consumers, organisations and society at large. Marketing practices have dramatically changed with the rise of social media, mobile apps and new technological developments in devices, platforms, and applications. 

We will explore together the rapid evolution of the digital environment presents new opportunities and challenges for marketers.
View Digital Marketing and Social Media on our Module Directory
Teaching
We develop your practical management skills and functional knowledge through:
lectures, seminars, lab sessions, group work and workshops
an optional research seminar series from our
Strategy, Operations and Entrepreneurship group
where you can hear from world-respected academics
Assessment
Coursework and exams.
Dissertation
You undertake a dissertation in an area of your choice.
If you start this course in October, you will start work on your dissertation during the summer term (term three) after you have completed your autumn and spring term modules.
If you start this course in January, you will start work on your dissertation during the summer term (term two) and you will receive feedback on your first draft. You will continue to work on your dissertation during the autumn term (term three) and will have the opportunity to incorporate learnings from your autumn modules before you submit the final version at the end of the year.
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£14,300
International fee
£22,400
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We hold
Open Days
for all our applicants throughout the year. Our Southend Campus events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex, and give you the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
If the dates of our organised events aren’t suitable for you, feel free to get in touch by emailing
southend@essex.ac.uk
and we’ll arrange an individual campus tour for you.
Applying
You can
apply for this postgraduate course online
. Before you apply, please check our information about
necessary documents
that we'll ask you to provide as part of your application.
We aim to respond to applications within two weeks. If we are able to offer you a place, you will be contacted via email.
For information on our deadline to apply for this course, please see our ‘
how to apply
' information.
Visit Southend Campus
Want to live in a central city location, with state-of-the-art facilities at your finger tips? Southend is the perfect environment for living and learning in a close-knit international community.
If you're joining our School of Health and Social Care, East 15 Acting School, or Essex Business School, you may well be studying at our Southend Campus.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Check out
our website
to find out more information about our Southend Campus, watch videos and view our campuses.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Open Days
Come see for yourself
Read all about it
Get a prospectus
Study at Essex
Find a course
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website