Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG00147%2F2%2FMFA-Acting-International&auth=VQrF11lO%2FJy6D47Z347oGg&profile=_default&rank=33&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
MFA Acting (International)
Postgraduate Course
MFA Acting
(International)
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Acting (International)
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year 8 months
Location:
East15 (Loughton) Campus
Based in:
East 15 Acting School
One of the longest established MFA Acting programmes in the UK, East 15 Acting School's MFA Acting (International) is an industry-focused, conservatoire-style professional training programme. This two-year full-time course is designed specifically for international students wishing to train in the UK.
Through this programme, you will gain mastery over a wide spectrum of core acting skills. Our training includes acting classes, movement lessons based on Laban, Feldenkrais, Somatic and Grotowski techniques, voice production, articulation, RP (Received Pronunciation) and singing. Additionally, you'll have the option to take extra Stage Combat classes in the evenings.
Throughout the course, you will receive individual feedback, guidance and support from your acting tutors as well as skills tutors.
The advanced acting training offered on this course draws on contemporary industry practices and the legacy of Stanislavski, as well as the unique methodologies and ethos of East 15 itself, which grew out of the techniques, beliefs and practice of one of the UK's most historically significant theatre companies of the 20th century: Joan Littlewood's Theatre Workshop.
On the MFA Acting (International), you will have opportunities to:
Undertake a six-week intensive study of Shakespeare, including a three-week residency at Shakespeare's Globe Theatre. Your residency culminates in a performance on the Globe stage to an invited public audience.
Learn advanced physical skills and vocal techniques, alongside rigorous training in all aspects of acting. Our unique approach also emphasises the use of detailed research and targeted improvisation, with direct application to text, character creation and scene work.
Perform in five technically supported, publicly ticketed shows. Three of these are staged at our
Corbett Theatre
and the remaining two at theatres in Central London. All shows promoted to the industry.
Professionally film a Showreel and record a Voicereel, which are included in the MFA Acting (International) Online Showcase, intended to promote you to members of industry in the UK and abroad.
Stage a studio-scale performance of a collaboratively Devised full-length show at the School, performed to an invited public audience.
Undertake writing workshops, leading to a Solo Theatre performance in our Corbett Theatre.
Take part in professional development workshops and masterclasses.
Join a distinguished group of alumni, whose recent work includes roles at the Royal Shakespeare Company, in Marvel films and Netflix series.
Collaborate with our MFA Theatre Directing students for modules on Brecht, Improvisation and Comedy.
You'll work with highly experienced professional practitioners and directors alongside an international cohort of actors from all over the world. This rich mix of diverse cultural backgrounds, historical perspectives, life experiences and trainings will enlighten, challenge, educate and inform you, both as an artist and as a human being.
We regard every actor as unique, recognising the need for different keys to unlock your capabilities as artists and individuals. Our training emphasises positivity, passion and professionalism, creating a truly safe space in which you can learn and explore to your fullest.
You'll learn to create truthful, three-dimensional characters with emotional depth and veracity, working with sophisticated texts across various genres and styles. Our training takes a holistic approach to building character and interpreting narrative, making it ideal for students interested in the the craft of acting and performance.
By the time you graduate, you will be a self-sufficient actor, in charge of your own process and able to work confidently with any director, in any genre or discipline.
--
The MFA Acting (International) course runs for 20 months on a full-time basis. We accept about 25 students each year into this programme.
In your second year, you'll undertake Acting for Camera classes, Showreel filming, Voicereel recording, Writing Workshops, and four of your public performances exclusively with your MFA Acting (International) cohort, typically in two groups of 12 or 13.
In your first year, MFA Acting (International) students are combined with the MA Acting (International) students for most modules, working in three groups of 14 to 16 students. The composition of these groups change after each module in response to your individual needs and future journey as an actor. This flexible structure allows you greater choice in selecting texts, projects, tutors and directors for your modules, supporting personalised development.
This course is taught at our picturesque
Loughton Campus
.
View more Masters courses from
East 15 Acting School
, including Theatre Directing.
Why we're great.
East 15 is a fully accredited Drama UK school.
We give our actors and directors the chance to work together on collaborative projects.
Use state-of-the-art filmmaking and editing resources, and our extensive studio and performance spaces.
Our expert staff
Our training is by professionals and for professionals, allowing our graduates to work successfully across the globe.
Our international, outstanding teaching faculty is made up of professionals from all areas of live and recorded performance.
Learn more about our staff
here
.
Specialist facilities
Our
Loughton Campus
is perfectly located, providing access to both the rich, cultural diversity of London and an attractive and peaceful setting in which to study.
We are just a five-minute walk from London Underground station, Debden, where you can travel in only thirty minutes to Central London, West End theatres and mainline train stations including the Eurostar.
We have three sites at our Loughton Campus – Hatfields, Roding House and Unit Four. Hatfields is a beautiful Georgian dower house, set in five acres of lawns with orchards, flowerbeds and a small lake, providing an idyllic atmosphere for study, relaxation and performance.
Just a short walk from Hatfields is Roding House, a £1.3 million facility containing 10 rehearsal rooms, a green room/café, a sound recording studio and a video editing suite, and our costume department.
Next to Roding House, Unit Four is a £1.5 million facility which is home to the Stage & Production Management department. The Unit contains a large workshop, paint shop, prop shop, prop storage facilities and teaching spaces.
Our on-site Corbett Theatre is named in honour of Harry H Corbett, a key member of Joan Littlewood's Theatre Workshop and early benefactor of East 15. It is used extensively for student productions and is a practical training hub for our BA Stage and Production Management students.
The building is a medieval tithe barn that was dismantled and transported to Hatfields in the 1960s. These unusual origins create a unique performance space with a special atmosphere. Renovated to include full technical facilities, tiered seating for 130 people and fitted dressing rooms, the theatre provides an excellent resource for public productions, while the adjacent Bar and Café provides a social meeting point for students and staff.
Your future
Graduates of this course are equipped with comprehensive, professional training and a clear, embedded process that enables them to pursue professional careers in theatre, film, TV and other creative industries globally. Our alumni are working and winning awards as actors in the USA, China, Norway, South Korea and many other countries. Several have formed their own successful theatre companies, such as LubDub Theatre in New York, and have written plays that have been performed professionally in London, New York, LA, Oslo and Washington.
“The crosspollination of ideas and cultures brought together in the faculty and students in this course provides a valuable springboard in creating extraordinary theatre.”
Earl Kim, MFA Acting (International)
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
Our applicants need to undertake a successful audition or video audition, plus have a first degree with an overall 2.2, or equivalent or suitable life and/or professional expertise.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If English is not your first language, we require IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum component score of 5.5
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Additional Notes
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to successfully complete a course at the University of Essex. Where appropriate, we may ask for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
Structure
Course structure
At East 15, our training draws upon over 60 years of tradition combined with a keen sense of the world of stage and screen today. Our carefully selected modules will give you the chance to explore and develop your specialist training.
In your first year, you'll spend approximately half of your typical week in Acting class, with the remainder focused on Voice, Articulation, Movement and Singing classes. We believe in a holistic approach to training, so your work in the Voice, Articulation and Movement classes are usually connected to the project you are working on in your Acting class.
The second year focuses on developing your process by working as an MFA Acting ensemble with external professional theatre directors and designers. You'll continue with Voice and Movement classes, usually to support your productions. The productions you work on are fully public, intended to showcase you to UK industry. The cast size of each production is usually 12 to 13 actors.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Advanced Acting Technique
(30 CREDITS)
This MA/MFA Acting (International) module includes study and practical application of at least two major European approaches to actor training, one (e.g. Stanislavsky) focussed on text and the other (e.g. Laban) focussed on movement and body training. Classes include voice (speaking and singing), movement, character work in production, anatomy and physiology for the actor. The work of the module pays specific attention to clarity of diction under performance conditions.
View Advanced Acting Technique on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Character and Scene Work
(30 CREDITS)
This MA/MFA Acting (International) module uses a research based Naturalistic approach to acting as its base. In term one, students study a practical Stanislavski based approach to acting and character creation. In term two, building on the work in the first term, student will study a range of texts will includes research into their cultural context, the writer's life and works, themes of the plays and the critical reception of the plays in production.
View Character and Scene Work on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Shakespeare
(30 CREDITS)
This module focuses on the development of skills and techniques for understanding, speaking and communicating Renaissance text, with an emphasis on the handling of verse, rhythm, inflection and pace.
View Shakespeare on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Contemporary Texts
(30 CREDITS)
This MA/MFA Acting (International) module introduces students to the study of, and practical response to, key 20th-century and contemporary texts, including 'classic' texts such as those by Beckett, Pinter, Brecht and Rodrigues, and selected contemporary practitioners from around the world. The development of improvisational and devising skills and techniques as a springboard to create a response to a text, or to further develop ideas and themes into performance, are explored. Study may include vocal work in Received Pronunciation and may include handling of regional speech and dialect as appropriate to specific texts. Study of texts will include research on their cultural context, the writer's life and works, themes of the plays and the critical reception of the plays in production.
View Contemporary Texts on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE WITH OPTIONS
EA612-7-SU or EA613-7-SU
(60 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Theatre Performance 1
(30 CREDITS)
This Year Two MFA Acting (International) module gives students the opportunity to work within a repertory company format to present a fully staged play written in or translated into English, using a script from the period 1880 to 1980, with an emphasis on Realist Naturalist texts.
View Theatre Performance 1 on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Theatre Performance 2
(30 CREDITS)
This Year Two MFA Acting (International) module gives students the opportunity to work within a repertory company format to present a fully-staged production of a script in English with an emphasis on stylised or non- naturalistic text.
View Theatre Performance 2                                                                                on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE
Theatre Performance 3
(30 CREDITS)
This Year Two MFA Acting (International) module gives students the opportunity to work within a repertory company format to present a fully produced play in English, with script from the period 1980 to the present.
View Theatre Performance 3                                                                                on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: CORE
Film, Radio and Voiceover
(30 CREDITS)
This MFA second year acting module focuses on acting for camera, radio and voiceover. It also looks at writing and creating show reel and voice reel material designed to enhance the students' employability.
View Film, Radio and Voiceover on our Module Directory
Teaching
Year 1
Term 1
Character and Scene Study
In the first term, you'll focus on acting techniques evolved from the Stanislavski tradition, using extensive improvisational exercises to explore East 15's core approach to actor training. This enables students from diverse traditions and approaches to establish a shared language and process in preparation for subsequent training.
The focus then shifts to applying what you have learned in the initial improvised exercises to text. Through our intensive, detailed approach to text analysis, research, and targeted improvisation, you'll enhance your ability to bring characters and situations to life. You'll also deepen your process in the rehearsal and performance of naturalistic scenes. This module utilises naturalistic scripts: from Chekhov and Ibsen to Hansberry and Rattigan.
The first term ends with a collaboration with our MA and MFA Theatre Directing students, leading to an internal performance in one of our studios.
Term 2
Contemporary Text
In this module, each group works with a director to devise an entirely new show in response to a text, novel or article. These studio-scale shows are performed to an invited public audience at the School.
Shakespeare and The Shakespeare's Globe Residence
This module starts with three weeks of workshops and masterclasses designed to deepen your understanding of Shakespeare's text: its meaning and mechanics. You'll explore analytical and experimental approaches to develop clarity and accuracy while inhabiting the text truthfully. You'll also take part in masterclasses delivered by professionals with extensive experience at the RSC, National Theatre and Shakespeare's Globe Theatre.
The second half of this module is a three-week residency at Shakespeare's Globe Theatre. During this time, you'll work with the Globe's own directors and experts in text, movement, voice and dance, rehearsing and performing 50-minute versions of Shakespearean texts on the Globe stage for an invited public audience.
Term 3
Writing Workshops and Collaborative Projects
You'll take part in writing workshops with a professional playwright, developing your self-penned solo theatre projects. Additionally, you will either collaborate with a professional playwright for a newly commissioned play for Year Two, or on performance projects with Theatre Directing students.
Public Productions
Your first fully public show will be one of three full-length plays, staged in the
Corbett Theatre
at East 15. These productions are directed by established professional directors and fully supported by professional set, costume, lighting and sound designers. This experience allows you to create at least one complete role in a public production promoted to Industry. MFA Acting (International) first-year students mostly take on supporting roles in these productions.
Year 2
This year is focused on developing your process by working as an ensemble with external professional directors and designers.
Term 1
Solo Theatre Writing and Public Performance
Your second public performance Features a compendium of self-penned solo performance pieces, performed in our Corbett Theatre. This show is promoted to industry professionals, in addition to being livestreamed world over.
Young People's Shows
You'll perform in fully technically supported public productions of shows aimed at younger audiences. Audiences comprise students from local schools, alongside the general public. These shows are directed by external professional directors and performed in the Corbett Theatre.
Term 2
Central London Productions
The second term begins with the ensemble performing in public productions at a Central London theatre venue. These productions are directed by external professional directors and aimed at promoting you to members of UK Industry.
Acting for Camera and Microphone
You'll take part in Acting for Camera workshops and film your Showreels, and thereafter record your Voicereels. These reels are available for your own portfolio and promoted in the
Online MFA Acting International Showcase
.
Professional Preparation
You'll participate in Professional Practice sessions with industry professionals, which include self-tape workshops led by casting directors, as well as workshops on Audition Practice and Technique, Self-Promotion, Branding, Marketing, and starting your own company.
Term 3
Online Showcase
The
MFA Acting (International) Online Showcase
is launched to our wide database of UK Industry contacts, as well as selected Industry contacts abroad. The showcase also promotes your final public performances to UK Industry.
Final Shows
The ensembles perform in public productions, directed and designed by industry professionals, at a second central London theatre venue. These final shows are also promoted to the industry.
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£19,200 per year
Additional costs for materials and field trips of up to approximately £775. Equipment lists are reviewed annually.
International fee
£21,300 per year
Additional costs for materials and field trips of up to approximately £775. Equipment lists are reviewed annually.
Fees will increase for each academic year of study.
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Applying
Applying
When you apply for one of our postgraduate courses, we will assess you on your experience (both academic and practical) and your potential for success. You will need to undertake an audition that has an element of physical activity as part of your assessment.
You need to complete and send us an East 15 application form, including a link to your video audition, and pay your audition fee.
Full information on how to apply, what to prepare for your video audition and links to the East 15 application form and audition fee payment are on the
East 15 website
.
Auditioning
You will need to include a link to your video audition on your application form. The full information on what you need to include in your audition is on the
East 15 website
.
If you are successful in your video audition, you will be asked to attend a further audition with one of our tutors. Full information on the options available to you and what you need to prepare for your recall audition will be sent to you by email.
Auditions generally take place between November and June and are available online, on campus and at other regional and international events.  If you live outside the UK, we audition internationally in different countries each year. For a list of our events, please see the
East 15 website
. If you are unable to attend one of these in person events, you should submit your application form and video audition following the instruction on how to apply here. If you are recalled, your audition will take place online.
Visit Loughton Campus
You’ll be in intensive training at one of the most prestigious and internationally respected conservatoires in the country, gaining the skills and knowledge necessary to pursue a career in the performing arts. You'll arrive at a campus with state-of-the-art study and performance facilities, nestled in the stunning grounds of a country house.
But fear not! It’s not all work and no play at
East 15 Acting School
in Loughton and you're just a short step away from the bright lights and big city of central London.
Find out more
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Related courses
MA Acting (International)
Study mode:
Full-time
Location:
East15 (Loughton) Campus
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Open Days
Come see for yourself
Read all about it
Get a prospectus
Study at Essex
Find a course
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website