Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG00542%2F2%2FMRes-Economics&auth=xfKE2YRa9aLQsYL4Db%2FG8w&profile=_default&rank=300&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
MRes Economics
Postgraduate Course
MRes Economics
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Economics
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Economics
At Essex we push the frontiers of accepted wisdom, critically examining the decisions of individuals, the strategies of firms, and the policies of governments to understand and challenge the standard paradigms of economics. Our popular Masters in Research course (MRes) provides you with a stimulating route into PhD studies, and develops the expert research mind-set required for a high-profile job in finance or business, if you want to work in the private sector after your degree.
The MRes course is designed for you to master research methods and tools, and to acquire a solid foundation to pursue a more research focused career. MRes students are expected to commit full time to their studies and with a high level of independence to start developing a research mindset. You learn through a combination of lectures, classes and independent work which allow you to appreciate and understand the deeper connections between topics. This includes making connections during classes and lectures and also work independently. You also gain a deepened understanding of how to apply techniques to new problems and see beyond the surface to identify when concepts and tools from one area could be applied to another. Due to this style of learning you develop the ability to tackle economic problems with a unified approach and identify a suitable research topic for your dissertation.
You receive lectures, classes and advanced training in the two-term sequence of microeconomics, macroeconomics and econometrics. You have the opportunity to attend specialized classes which aim at developing a research mindset and a deeper understanding of the subjects; whilst also learning complementary tools and techniques independently. So a willingness to work with mathematical and statistical concepts, and understand rigorous mathematical reasoning, is vital.
You are strongly encouraged to work in groups, to discuss and challenge themselves beyond the material learnt from lectures or classes. Specially designed sets of exercises will help you in achieving these goals. During the MRes course you explore a variety of topics including:
The competitive economy and imperfections in markets
General equilibrium theory and Public Choice
Key paradigms of macroeconomics and macroeconomic policy
Econometric methods and mathematical methods
Strategic behaviour and bargaining
We are 4th in UK for research power in economics and econometrics (Times Higher Education research power measure, Research Excellence Framework 2021). Much of this world-class research is related to policy, and we have particular strengths in many areas of economics. See the
full list here
.
With this course you also have the opportunity to study abroad at one of our partner institutions and achieve a dual award, which means you'll receive two Masters degrees in two years. Find out more on our
dual award webpage.
Why we're great.
Top 25 in the UK for economics and econometrics in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2024
7th in UK for economics (The Guardian University Guide 2025)
Receive advanced training in core areas of micro- and macro-economics and econometrics
Our expert staff
Study and work alongside some of the most prominent economists of our time.
Our researchers are at the forefront of their field and have even received MBEs, with students coming from across the globe to study, research or work with us.
Many of our researchers also provide consultancy services to businesses in London and other major financial centres, helping us to develop research for today's society as well as informing our teaching for the future.
The quality of our work is reflected in our stream of publications in high-profile academic journals, including American Economic Review, Econometrica, Journal of Political Economy, and Review of Economic Studies.
For a full list of research interests, see our Department's
staff pages
.
Specialist facilities
Take advantage of our wide range of learning resources to assist you in your studies:
Extensive software for quantitative analysis is available in all computer labs across the university
Access a variety of economics databases and multiple copies of textbooks and e-books in the
Albert Sloman Library
Your future
After completing your masters, you may wish to extend your knowledge with a research degree – many Essex graduates decide to stay here for further study.
Alternatively, our course also prepares you for employment; recent surveys have shown that higher degree graduates are more likely to obtain jobs at professional or managerial level.
Our recent graduates have gone on to work for a range of high-profile organisations:
The Ministry of Finance
HM Treasury
The Work Foundation
Fitch Ratings
Schroders Investment Management
More generally, our graduates find employment in roles such as business and financial analysts, management consultants, government officials, and economists for banks and other financial organisations.
We work with the University's
Careers Services
to help you find out about further work experience, internships, placements, and voluntary opportunities.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
A 1st class degree, or international equivalent, in any discipline which includes three relevant modules in:
Econometrics
Macroeconomics
Microeconomics
We will also consider applicants with any other 1st class degree or above where there is one year's relevant work experience after graduating.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If English is not your first language, we require IELTS 6.5 overall with a minimum
score of 5.5 in all components.
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English
pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Additional Notes
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to
successfully complete a course at the University of Essex. Where appropriate, we may ask
for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
Structure
Course structure
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The following modules are based on the current course structure and may change in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
MREs Microeconomics
(20 CREDITS)
This module covers the concepts and methods of modern microeconomics. You will begin with an overview of the competitive economy and develop the two fundamental theorems of welfare economics. You will then study various types of imperfections in markets such as differential information and strategic interaction with a view to understanding the potential role for government policy. Topics covered include contract theory (with moral hazard and adverse selection problems), equilibrium concepts in game theory, and market signalling.
View MREs Microeconomics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
MREs Macroeconomics
(20 CREDITS)
This is an advanced module in macroeconomics. You will cover the concepts and methods of modern macroeconomics, beginning with an overview of the two main paradigms of macroeconomics: the Classical and Keynesian models. You will then develop the main model to study the economy in the long run: the Solow growth model. You will then study the determinants of consumption and investment, and finish with the study of economies in an infinite horizon.
View MREs Macroeconomics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
MREs Econometrics
(20 CREDITS)
This module aims to provide you with necessary technical fundamentals in econometrics that would be important for your research in the future. You will learn about OLS, WLS, GLS, GMM, and MLE estimation techniques and the rigorous properties of those estimators by using linear algebra. This module begins with a brief review of the mathematical and statistical prerequisites needed for econometrics illustrated using ordinary least squares methods in the classical linear regression model. It then proceeds to cover the use of asymptotic methods in econometrics, classical hypothesis tests, generalized least squares, instrumental variables and the generalized method of moments, and maximum likelihood.
View MREs Econometrics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Mathematical Methods
(20 CREDITS)
What mathematical concepts are vital to understanding modern economic theory? Gain the essential mathematics skills needed to study economics at Masters-level, such as optimisation theory and the role of equilibrium. Understand how economic arguments work and improve your problem solving skills by using real-world economic problems.
View Mathematical Methods on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Advanced Microeconomics
(20 CREDITS)
Interested in understanding current research and undertaking research in economics? This module covers topics in decision theory, game theory and information economics, contract theory and mechanism design with an emphasis on mathematical formalism. The module will introduce you to the mathematical framework and methods that are relevant to research in these topics.
View Advanced Microeconomics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Advanced Macroeconomics
(20 CREDITS)
This module introduces some of the fundamental building blocks of modern macroeconomics left uncovered by the first term module and will cover both real and monetary economies. After an advanced treatment of consumption and investment, the module will focus on the role of innovation in economic growth and its modelling. We will then look at fiscal policies, mainly the concepts of Ricardian equivalence, distortionary and optimal taxation and tax smoothing. Within the overlapping generation framework we will look at the issue of funding of social security. Finally, the module will consider monetary policy.
View Advanced Macroeconomics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: COMPULSORY WITH OPTIONS
EC965-7-SP or EC964-7-SP
(20 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 08: CORE
Dissertation
(40 CREDITS)
What interests you? Undertake a research project of your choosing, studying a specific economic issue or set of problems in depth, with supervision from our world-leading academic staff. Gain experience of original and independent work, making use of and building on skills that you have acquired during your Masters.
View Dissertation on our Module Directory
Teaching
Postgraduate students in the Department of Economics typically attend a two-hour lecture and a one-hour class or lab for each module per week.
Core components can be combined with optional modules to enable you to gain either in-depth specialisation or a breadth of understanding across several topics
Our postgraduates are encouraged to attend conferences and seminars
Assessment
Each module is assessed with a final examination and a coursework component
Coursework is taken in the form of a term paper or a midterm test
Assessment in all the modules in the MRes course reflects the deeper research-oriented learning that MRes students are expected to achieve.
Dissertation
You undertake an individually supervised research project that involves the in-depth study of a specific economic problem or issue
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£15,000
International fee
£23,500
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We hold
Open Days
for all our applicants throughout the year. Our Colchester Campus events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex, and give you the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
If the dates of our organised events aren’t suitable for you, feel free to get in touch by emailing
tours@essex.ac.uk
and we’ll arrange an individual campus tour for you.
Applying
You can
apply for this postgraduate course online
. Before you apply, please check our information about
necessary documents
that we'll ask you to provide as part of your application.
We aim to respond to applications within two weeks. If we are able to offer you a place, you will be contacted via email.
For information on our deadline to apply for this course, please see our ‘
how to apply
' information.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree
virtual tour
allows you to explore the Colchester Campus from the comfort of your home. Check out our accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Related courses
MSc Economics
Study mode:
Full-time
Part-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
Graduate Diploma Economics
Study mode:
Full-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
MA Economics
Study mode:
Full-time
Part-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Open Days
Come see for yourself
Read all about it
Get a prospectus
Study at Essex
Find a course
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website