Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG00366%2F2%2FMRes-Health-Research&auth=8GLFJ%2B5Tc4PgiK0AGfX7qw&profile=_default&rank=406&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
MRes Health Research
Postgraduate Course
MRes Health Research
Start date
October 2025
January 2026
Study mode
Full Time
Part Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Health Research
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Health and Social Care (School of)
The Masters in Health and Social Care Research (MRes) at the University of Essex   prepares health and social care practitioners for a range of research careers. It provides practitioners with a framework  for the evaluation of health and social care practice to support reliable, evidence-based decision-making. Applications from all health and social care practitioners are welcomed. Students who have been registered with an eligible professional body for 5 years or less may apply for an NIHR INSIGHT programme place on the course:
Academy for Healthcare Science
General Chiropractic Council
General Dental Council
General Medical Council
General Optical Council
General Osteopathic Council
General Pharmaceutical Council
Health and Care Professions Council
Nursing and Midwifery Council
Social Work England
UK Public Health Register
Our MRes Health Research course is designed to enable health and social care practitioners to develop advanced and applied research skills and prepare them for careers as researcher-practitioners. The course draws on the expertise of researcher and researcher-practitioners, orientating learning towards the challenges facing the health and social care sector, focusing on research methodologies, theories and practices associated with contemporary and future priorities in health and social care. Approaches favoured by the NIHR – the UK’s national research council for health research – are embedded throughout the curriculum, ensuring that you develop expertise in:
Quantitative and qualitative research skills
Critical appraisal of research methodologies
Evidence synthesis and the dissemination of implementation of evidence in practice
Theories and concepts that inform methodological approaches and standards.
Managing small and large datasets
Ethical research conduct and practices
Project management in the context of health and social care research
This course is offered as a full-time or part-time course starting in October, as well as a part-time course in January.
Why we're great.
The MRes at University of Essex prepares students to undertake novel research in Health and Care settings, academia and the private sector.
You will be provided with a clear framework for planning future research projects and advancing to doctoral training
This course is delivered by researchers and lecturers with health and care backgrounds and academic disciplines relating to health and social science.
Our expert staff
A unique feature of our School is that many of our staff work with local NHS Trusts and other local agencies, which enhances our grasp of the contemporary links between academic research, the major issues of the day and practice.
We specialise in applied, multidisciplinary research that addresses issues of national and international concern to health and social care policy and practice and related fields.
Specialist facilities
The School of Health and Social Care is located at two sites; in the Kimmy Eldridge building at our Colchester campus and in the Gateway Building at our Southend campus.
Our dedicated support tutor will help to develop your academic literacy and clinical numeracy skills. This helps you apply these critically important areas of study to real life situations.
Your future
The MRes in Health and Social Care Research prepares students for employment in diverse health and social care, academic or private sector settings.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
We will consider applicants with:
An honours degree, at grade 2:2 or above or international equivalent.
AND
Applicants must be registered with one of the following regulatory bodies:
Academy for Healthcare Science
General Chiropractic Council
General Dental Council
General Medical Council
General Optical Council
General Osteopathic Council
General Pharmaceutical Council
Health and Care Professions Council
Nursing and Midwifery Council
Social Work England
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If English is not your first language, we require IELTS 6.5 overall with a minimum component score of  5.5 in all components.
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Additional Notes
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to successfully complete a course at the University of Essex. Where appropriate, we may ask for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
Structure
Course structure
Our dedicated support tutor will help to develop your academic literacy and clinical numeracy skills. This helps you apply these critically important areas of study to real life situations.
The course is available on a part- or full-time basis.
Full-time has 180 credits corresponding to 1800 hours of learning (including self-directed learning). Part-time study corresponds to 900 hours across the academic year.
A combination of lectures, seminars, tutorials and small group teaching sessions focus on the core content of the curriculum. Self-directed learning requires a further 3 days per week.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Dissertation
(60 CREDITS)
This final module consolidates your learning and equips you to take your career forward with a range of skills and knowledge relevant to your professional practice. It is an opportunity to undertake an independent research project relevant to your field of practice.

You will formulate a research question, plan and carry out the project, analyse and write up the results. You can undertake primary or secondary research, or audit/service evaluation or a library based critical literature review research project.  If you are undertaking the MSc in Health Research you will undertake a primary or secondary research project, engaging with empirical data.
View Dissertation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Research Placement
(15 CREDITS)
This module draws upon principles of practicum learning to support candidates’ development as clinical research practitioners.  Candidates will gain experience of working as part of a clinical research team aligned, as far as possible, with individual candidates’ proposed research interests.
View Research Placement on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Introduction to Health Informatics and Applied Epidemiology
(15 CREDITS)
Health Informatics can bring improvements in health and social care practice and patient/client safety. It is multidisciplinary and combines clinical and social care practice expertise and biomedicine with Information Technology (IT), epidemiology, health and social care policies, computing science, mathematics and statistics.


The module is suitable for registered health and care professionals who want to improve their understanding of digital health and care practice and to learn the skills to manage health and social care systems, analyse routine data from their own professional practice and be able to develop and evaluate digital health and care interventions.
View Introduction to Health Informatics and Applied Epidemiology on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Data Collection, Analysis and Interpretation
(15 CREDITS)
This module provides you with a range of techniques for collecting, analysing and interpreting data. It combines a theoretical and a practical approach to enable you to understand the collection and analysis process. At the end of the module, you will be able to design and pilot data collection instruments, conduct quantitative and qualitative data analysis using appropriate computer software, and interpret statistical and qualitative research findings. 

Find out more about this module at https://www.essex.ac.uk/short-courses/hs908/7/data-collection-analysis-and-interpretation
View Data Collection, Analysis and Interpretation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Qualitative Health Research
(15 CREDITS)
Suitable for Masters and Doctoral students undertaking research methods training, this is a general introduction to process of qualitative research as applied to the study of issues of health and illness. The course places a central focus on processes and practices of qualitative research. At the end of this course you will be aware of central issues in the conduct of qualitative research.
View Qualitative Health Research on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Statistical Analysis
(15 CREDITS)
This module is ideal if you have no previous experience of quantitative methods. It introduces you to basic and intermediate statistical concepts and procedures, emphasising practical applications rather than mathematics; although a small amount of elementary mathematics is inevitably required.
View Statistical Analysis on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: COMPULSORY
Survey Research Methods
(15 CREDITS)
A survey is a form of structured enquiry that collects similar information on each member of a sample or population (of people, households or physical objects e.g. houses) from existing documents, self-completed questionnaires, interviews or observations with a view to drawing scientific conclusions about social (including health-related) issues.


Health surveys are cross-sectional studies and can be used to collect data longitudinally, over time.  They are useful in a variety of research methods including semi structured interviews, Health-related Quality of Life outcome measurement tools and other types of questionnaires.
View Survey Research Methods on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 08: COMPULSORY
Health Economics
(15 CREDITS)
This module focuses on the technique of economic evaluation. As resources are scarce choices need to be made about how to best allocate those scarce resources. Given resources are finite provision of one option means there is less resource that can be spent elsewhere and as such another option will likely have to be sacrificed (i.e., there is generally an opportunity cost associated with the provision of a particular health care intervention as it means another intervention will not be provided). Economic evaluation typically compares the costs and benefits of different health care interventions with a view to establish which intervention is more cost-effective i.e., which intervention offers value for money and should therefore be provided (at the expense of another intervention which would not be provided).


The module will outline the different types of economic evaluation, and explain the steps of identification, measurement and valuation of both costs and outcomes. It will include applied work where students would be able to use hypothetical data to estimate costs based on different levels of resource use e.g., the number of visits to different types of health professionals, and outcomes based on reported quality of life data. Exercises would be developed in e.g., Microsoft Excel / STATA. The analysis performed on such estimated cost and outcome data in order estimate levels of cost-effectiveness/value for money will also be covered. The use of critical appraisal to assess the quality of the economic evidence and use of recommended reporting checklists/standards will also be outlined.
View Health Economics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 09: COMPULSORY WITH OPTIONS
HS900-7-AT or HS633-7-SP
(15 CREDITS)
Placement
Placements with established researchers or research groups are carefully tailored to the student’s professional background. The placement provides first-hand experience of undertaking research in the real world.
Teaching
The course is delivered using small-group teaching sessions, seminars, applied workshops and a research placement, where you work as a member of an established clinical, health or care-based research team to practise your emergent expertise in a real-world practicum.
Assessment
The formal assessments are in the form of written assignments, generally with a 2000-4000 word written format.
Dissertation
The dissertation is an extended piece of scholarship of students choosing and should be based on a piece of research that they structure and lead. Dissertations offer the opportunity for in-depth study and analysis of a topic relevant to the  Master’s degree programme. It gives students the chance to pursue a topic that they are interested in  and to develop research their independent study skills.
The dissertation comprises one-third of the credits on the MRes. Students are expected to demonstrate the ability to engage critically and analytically with literature in the field, building upon relevant concepts and theory covered in the taught element of the degree.
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
TBC
International fee
TBC
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We hold
Open Days
for all our applicants throughout the year. Our Colchester Campus events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex, and give you the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
If the dates of our organised events aren’t suitable for you, feel free to get in touch by emailing
tours@essex.ac.uk
and we’ll arrange an individual campus tour for you.
Applying
There is more information about how to
apply for our postgraduate courses online
. You'll need to provide us with your academic qualifications, as well as supporting documents such as transcripts, English language qualifications and certificates. You can find a list of necessary documents online, but please note we won't be able to process your application until we have everything we need.
To apply for this course, please complete
this application form
.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree
virtual tour
allows you to explore the Colchester Campus from the comfort of your home. Check out our accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Life at Essex
What it's like to live at Essex
Accommodation
Find your new home
Open Days
Come see for yourself
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website