Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG01389%2F1%2FMSc-Applied-Data-Science&auth=PUWwCyaGL1of9bhnJCIHZA&profile=_default&rank=273&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
MSc Applied Data Science
Postgraduate Course
MSc Applied Data Science
Start date
January 2025
October 2025
January 2026
Study mode
Full Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Applied Data Science
Start date:
January 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science (School of)
Our MSc Applied Data Science is a conversion course specifically designed for students without prior experience of university-level mathematics or statistics, who want to be part of our fast-growing digital economy (students with some mathematical experience may consider our
MSc Data Science and its Applications
). The course will build upon your undergraduate degree in the humanities, social or life sciences, or business studies, giving you postgraduate-level skills in essential data science methods with various applications, covering case studies and applications of AI and data using a balance of methods and practical application.
The course introduces you to programming with the R language and as well as text analytics. Relational databases and SQL are developed and used for relevant applications from humanities, life sciences, linguistics, marketing and social science. The course encourages statistical thinking by data visualisations and guides you to develop your creativity within a scientific framework.
You cover topics such as:
Using R for statistical modelling and decision making
Linear and generalised linear models are used for experimental and observational data
Artificial intelligence
Deep and statistical learning
Applied statistics
Information retrieval
Digital economy
Survey sampling
The leading department on this course, our
School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science
, is genuinely innovative and student-focused. Our research groups are working on a broad range of collaborative areas tackling real-world issues. The School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science and our
School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering
are working together with other departments across the University to deliver optional modules and summer projects with Essex Business School, the Department of Language and Linguistics, the School of Life Sciences, the School of Philosophical, Historical and Interdisciplinary Studies, and the Department of Psychology. Our course also benefits from many Knowledge Transfer Partnerships which support students through placements and an interdisciplinary outreach culture.
The University of Essex is committed to transformational education and inclusion, focused on learning opportunities for every student, responsive to our students' needs and aspirations. Our MSc Applied Data Science reflects this by supporting every student, from every background, and removing the barriers to their education.
This course is developed in collaboration with industry partners and public sector organisations, which include BT, Profusion, Essex County Council, Essex Police, and Suffolk County Council. Our active links with industry can broaden your employment potential and offer placement opportunities.
Suitably-qualified applicants may be eligible for a
scholarship
as a stipend or towards their tuition fees.
This course is available on a full- and part-time basis, starting in October. You can also start this course in January, but this option is only available to those who wish to study full-time.
Why we're great.
We are international leaders in data science education for the digital industry.
We offer you access to specialist research facilities such as the UK Data Archive and our Institute for Social and Economic Research (ISER), both located on campus.
We have active links with industry to broaden your employment potential and placement opportunities.
Our expert staff
Today's data scientists are creative people who are focused and committed, yet restless and experimental. We are home to many of the world's top scientists, and our staff are driven by creativity and imagination as well as technical excellence. We conduct world-leading research in areas such as artificial intelligence, explorative data analysis, machine learning, classification and clustering, evolutionary computation, data visualisation and financial forecasting. Specialist staff at Essex working on data science across our departments include:
Dr Yanchun Bao – longitudinal and survival analysis, causal methods, instrumental methods (Mendelian Randomization), covariance modelling, mediation analysis
Professor Luca Citi – machine learning, learning from biological signals and data (EEG, etc)
Professor Edward Codling - animal movement and dispersal, random walks and diffusion, path analysis of movement data, behaviour of animal groups, human crowd behaviour
Dr Stella Hadjiantoni – estimation of large-scale multivariate linear models and applications, numerical methods for the development of recursive regularisation and machine learning algorithms, numerical linear algebra in statistical computing and data science, numerical methods for handling high-dimensional data sets
Dr Andrew Harrison – bioinformatics, big data science
Professor Berthold Lausen – biostatistics, classification and clustering, data science education, event time data, machine learning, predictive modelling
Dr Osama Mahmoud – biostatistics, data science, machine learning, Mendelian Randomization
Dr Yassir Rabhi – mathematical statistics, mathematical foundations of data science
Professor Abdel Salhi – optimisation mathematical programming and heuristics (evolutionary computing, nature-inspired algorithms, the Strawberry Algorithm),
numerical analysis data mining (big data) bioinformatics
Dr Dmitry Savostyanov – high-dimensional problems, tensor product decompositions
Dr Alexei Vernitski – machine learning in mathematics; reinforcement learning applied to knot theory; mathematical education, and in particular, increasing motivation of learners of mathematics
Dr Spyros Vrontos – actuarial mathematics and actuarial modelling
Dr Jackie Wong Siaw Tze – Bayesian estimation, MCMC methods
Dr Xinan Yang – approximate dynamic programming, Markov decision process
Specialist facilities
All computers run either Windows 10 or are dual boot with Linux
Software includes R, Python, SQL, Hadoop and Sparc
We also have specialist facilities for research into areas including non-invasive brain-computer interfaces, intelligent environments, robotics, optoelectronics, video, RF and MW, printed circuit milling, and semiconductors
Collaborate with the Essex Institute of Data Analytics and Data Science (IADS) and the ESRC Business and Local Government (BLoG) Data Research Centre of the University of Essex
The UK Data Archive and the Institute for Social and Economic Research (ISER) at Essex contribute to our internationally outstanding data science environment
Your future
With a predicted shortage of data scientists, now is the time to future-proof your career. Applied data scientists with undergraduate skills in the humanities, social or life sciences are required for the designing and carrying out of statistical analysis or mining data, so our course opens the door to almost any industry, from health, to government, to publishing.
Our graduates are highly sought after by a range of employers and find employment in financial services, scientific computation, decision making support and government, risk assessment, statistics, education and other areas. Our recent graduates have gone onto work as data scientists and data analysts in both the private and public sectors.
We also offer supervision for PhD, MPhil and MSc by Dissertation.
We additionally work with our
Employability and Careers Centre
to help you find out about further work experience, internships, placements, and voluntary opportunities.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
A 2:2 degree, or international equivalent, in any discipline.
You may also be
considered with a lower-class degree, if you have three year’s relevant work experience (please provide your CV).
Applicants with a strong background in Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) may be considered for the
MSc Data Science and It's Applications
. 
We encourage you to consider this as a choice if you come from a STEM background.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If English is not your first language, we require IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum
component score of 5.5 in all components.
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English
pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Additional Notes
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to successfully complete a course at the University of Essex. Where appropriate, we may ask for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
Structure
Course structure
We offer a flexible course structure with a mixture of core/compulsory modules, and optional modules chosen from lists.
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The course content is therefore reviewed on an annual basis to ensure our courses remain up-to-date so modules listed are subject to change.
The structure below is representative of this course if taken full-time. If you choose to study part-time, the modules will be split across two years.
Please note that if you are studying full-time (either starting in October or January) there is no second year; you will develop your dissertation throughout the course of your single year.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY WITH OPTIONS
CE156-7-SP or MA214-7-PS
(15 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Data Visualisation
(15 CREDITS)
In a world increasingly driven by data, the need for analysis and visualisation is more important than ever. In this module you will look at data through the eyes of a numerical detective. You will work on the lost art of exploratory data analysis, reviewing appropriate methods for data summaries with the aim to summarise, understand, extract hidden patterns and identify relationships. You will then work on graphical data analysis, using simple graphs to understand the data, but also advanced complex methods to scrutinise data and interactive plots to communicate data information to a wider audience.
For data analysis and visualisations you will use R-studio, and a combination of R-shiny applications and google visualisations for interactive plotting.
View Data Visualisation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Programming and Text Analytics with R
(15 CREDITS)
This module will introduce you to the underlying principles and basic concepts of programming with the R language. It will cover a wide range of analytics, provide practical experience of powerful R tools, and present real-world examples of how data and analytics are used to gain insights and to improve a business or industry. These examples include string processing, text analytics, and sentiment analysis.

Throughout these examples, and many more, we will teach programming techniques that will enable you to apply advanced data science approaches to real-world applications.

This module assumes no prior programming skills.
View Programming and Text Analytics with R on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Databases and data processing with SQL
(15 CREDITS)
Relational databases and SQL are fundamental tools for applications in many different disciplines including humanities, life sciences, linguistics, marketing and social science. They are essential in almost all modern organisations for efficient information management in IT systems and commercial applications. The purpose of this module is to provide you with an introduction to the underlying principles of and practical experience in designing and implementing relational databases. It will cover data modelling and SQL, database analysis, design and management, and advanced topics including big data, security and privacy issues of modern databases.
View Databases and data processing with SQL on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Data analysis and statistics with R
(15 CREDITS)
The module will introduce you to concepts from data analysis and statistics and show how they can be applied effectively via the R language. It will cover a wide introduction to statistics and provide practical experience of real-world examples of how statistics is used to gain insights.

Throughout these examples, and many more, we will teach programming techniques that will enable you to apply statistical approaches to real-world applications.

This module assumes no previous exposure to statistics.
View Data analysis and statistics with R on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Modelling experimental and observational data
(15 CREDITS)
This module covers the principles of linear modelling for analysing experimental and observational data. You will first study the assumptions of the general linear model, including collinearity, influential data, assessing fitted models and model selection techniques. You will then encounter statistical methods for efficient analysis of experiments with normally distributed data, such as one-way ANOVA, and extend the methodology to logistic regression and analysis of contingency tables with categorical variables of interest. Finally, you will study multivariate methods for the analysis of large, high-dimensional data sets.
View Modelling experimental and observational data on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: COMPULSORY
Artificial intelligence and machine learning with applications
(15 CREDITS)
This module introduces Artificial Intelligence (AI), the science of making computers and machines display intelligent behaviour. This multidisciplinary activity draws from computer sciences, mathematics and statistics, and also elements of philosophy, logic and even psychology. Today, AI is ubiquitous in society, from self-driving cars to spam filters and finance trading to video games. The increasing dependence on AI will reshape society and economy. Understanding AI principles, applications, and limitations is important for all students, regardless of their background, and this module assumes no prior knowledge. This module provides both theoretical and practical techniques, covering AI theory and fundamentals of machine learning models, as well as their implementation and applications.
View Artificial intelligence and machine learning with applications on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 08: COMPULSORY
Foundational Mathematics for Data Science
(15 CREDITS)
In this module you will be introduced to the necessary mathematical foundations and tools for working with data. You will become familiar with standard mathematical notation and concepts, and with common techniques such as differentiation, integration, metrics, vectors and matrices.
View Foundational Mathematics for Data Science on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 09: COMPULSORY
Research Skills and Employability
(0 CREDITS)
What skills do you need to succeed during your studies? What about after university? How will you harness your knowledge and soft skills to realise your career goals? This module helps you take an active role in developing transferrable skills and capitalising on your unique background. As well as broad reflection on your professional development, this module will help you explore different career directions and prepare you for the application process, supported by an advisor from within the department.
View Research Skills and Employability on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE WITH OPTIONS
MA981-7-AP or MA983-7-AU
(60 CREDITS)
Teaching
Postgraduate Taught students in the School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science typically attend two hours of lectures and one class/lab every week, but this will vary dependent upon the module
Core components can be combined with optional modules, to enable you to gain either in-depth specialisation or a breadth of understanding
Learn to use LATEX to produce a document as close as possible to what professional mathematicians produce in terms of organisation, layout and type-setting
Our postgraduates are encouraged to attend conferences and seminars
Assessment
Courses are assessed on the results of your written examinations, together with continual assessments of your practical work and coursework
Dissertation
You will be provided with a list of dissertation titles or topics proposed by staff and it may be possible to propose a project of your own
Most dissertations are between 10,000 and 30,000 words in length. However, these are guidelines, not mandatory word counts
Close supervision by academic staff
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£10,000
International fee
£21,700
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We hold
Open Days
for all our applicants throughout the year. Our Colchester Campus events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex, and give you the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
If the dates of our organised events aren’t suitable for you, feel free to get in touch by emailing
tours@essex.ac.uk
and we’ll arrange an individual campus tour for you.
Applying
You can
apply for this postgraduate course online
. Before you apply, please check our information about
necessary documents
that we'll ask you to provide as part of your application.
We aim to respond to applications within two weeks. If we are able to offer you a place, you will be contacted via email.
For information on our deadline to apply for this course, please see our ‘
how to apply
' information.
Applicants with an undergraduate degree from our School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science, or who are working towards one, should first contact our admissions staff:
maths@essex.ac.uk
.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree
virtual tour
allows you to explore the Colchester Campus from the comfort of your home. Check out our accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Life at Essex
What it's like to live at Essex
Accommodation
Find your new home
Open Days
Come see for yourself
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website