Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG01023%2F1%2FMSc-Business-Analytics&auth=MF2qgR08FzLonRJi08mL8g&profile=_default&rank=158&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
MSc Business Analytics
Postgraduate Course
MSc Business Analytics
Start date
January 2025
October 2025
January 2026
Study mode
Full Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Business Analytics
Start date:
January 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year
Location:
Southend Campus
Based in:
Essex Business School
Since the pandemic, businesses around the world are stepping up their analytics capabilities in order to inform their response to unforeseen changes in their markets.
Organisations of all sizes must analyse complex business data to remain competitive. Business analytics helps to predict market trends and improve business processes. It empowers managers to make strategic decisions to improve performance in areas such as product development, operations, marketing, sales and supply chain management.
Our MSc Business Analytics develops your analytical skills so you can solve complex business problems and help to answer questions raised by local and global pressures. You are trained to organise, integrate and interpret data so you can make insightful forecasts into all aspects of business operations and implement appropriate actions.
You cover topics such as:
statistics and forecasting
data mining, visual and analytical techniques
global supply networks
economic theory
business management
Our range of optional modules gives you the opportunity to specialise in a variety of complementary business, management and marketing subjects.
This course is available to study starting in January or October.
Essex Business School
is home to an international community of students and staff. Across our two campuses in Colchester and Southend, our current Masters students join us from more than 40 different nationalities. The University of Essex offers a number of
scholarship and discounts
for Masters study, including tailored awards for international applicants.
Why we're great.
Choose between starting your course in October or January and take optional modules to tailor a Masters degree that is unique to you
Our academics are at the forefront of the big data debate
We have expert data analytics facilities in our Business and Local Government Data Research Centre
Our expert staff
Our
expert staff
have world-class research reputations. They're at the forefront of real-world data, management and entrepreneurial issues, ensuring you experience the very latest teaching and thinking to prepare you for the modern business world.
Our staff specialise in areas including:
internationalisation
innovation
new product development
human resource management
microfinance
ethics
social responsibility
sustainability
data analytics
Our academic staff are active members of the School's
Strategy, Operations and Entrepreneurship Group
, which carries out cutting-edge research into issues affecting the sustainable growth of business, society and the economy.
Many are also part of the national
Business and Local Government Data Research Centre
, which is based at our Colchester Campus and carries out research into issues impacting entrepreneurship and innovation, such as local economic growth and access to broadband. Not only does the centre have expert data analytics facilities, you're taught by academics who are actively involved in researching big data and collaborating with businesses to solve real-world issues.
When you join our school, you will benefit from world-leading research being conducted by our senior academic staff, like Professor of Technology Strategy
Suma Athreye
. Her teaching is informed by her work around the evolution of technology markets, inclusive innovation and international research and development management. She has consulted to the World Intellectual Property Organisation and is on the Editorial Board of the Innovation and Development and Multinational Business Review. She also advises the Big Innovation Centre.
Academic staff at our Southend campus also contribute to research for the
Centre for Research on Entrepreneurship Innovation Management and Internationalisation (REIMI)
which specialises in interrogating the research and practice of entrepreneurship, international management and innovation.
Specialist facilities
Our MSc Business Analytics is taught at our
Southend Campus
, just 40 minutes from London and in the heart of the Thames Gateway - one of the Government's priority areas for economic growth – offering fantastic internship and networking opportunities.
Southend-on-Sea combines the charms of a traditional seaside resort with the attractions of a vibrant, modern town and our campus sits right at the centre. With seven miles of coastline, a thriving arts and cultural scene and a wide variety of restaurants and nightlife all on your doorstep, it's the perfect place to live and study. Our town centre location has excellent transport links and London Southend Airport is just five minutes away by train, offering flights to over 50 destinations across Europe.
When you choose our Southend Campus for your studies, you'll have access to a superb learning environment with state-of-the-art
facilities
, including:
24-hour Learning Hub with computer suites and study pods
extensive public and academic library
student services desk
modern lecture theatres and seminar rooms
Graduate employment
support, events and initiatives
study skills
advice
in-house dentist and Faith Centre
our cosy SU Lounge, with pool tables and large-screen TV for socialising and relaxation
The University of Essex provides initiatives, including those for international students, to help you perform to your best academic potential, such as
free academic English classes.
Your future
Data is the driving force behind critical business decisions, so data scientists and analysts are in great demand in both start-ups and well-established companies. Becoming an expert in data analytics means you can help businesses gain competitive advantage by becoming better at making decisions and predictions through organising, analysing, integrating and interpreting data.
This course will equip you with essential numerical, analytical and problem-solving skills for a thriving career as a business analyst, manager, or consultant in private and public enterprises.
We also have a proud history of graduate entrepreneurs, including international business incubator 0100Ventures and entrepreneurship website SlovakSTARTUP.
We work with the University's
Careers Services
to help you find out about further work experience, internships, placements, and voluntary opportunities.
Read our
graduate profiles
to find out the types of organisations our Masters students go on to work for.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
A 2:2 degree, or international equivalent, in one of the following subjects (with no module requirements):
Accounting
Business Analytics
Computer Science
Economics
Engineering Science
Finance
Information Systems
Statistics
We will also consider a 2:2 degree in any subject, which includes at least one of the following modules:
Advanced Maths
or
Applied Maths
Biostatistics
Calculus
Economic Statistics
Engineering
or
Pure Maths
Management Science
Mathematical methods
Operations Research
Probability
Quantitative analysis
or
Quantitative methods
Statistics
We will also consider applicants with a lower level degree on a case by case basis where the applicant has
at least 2 to 3 years'
relevant work experience.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If English is not your first language, we require IELTS 6.5 overall with a minimum score of  5.5 in all components.
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English
pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Additional Notes
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to
successfully complete a course at the University of Essex. Where appropriate, we may ask
for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
Structure
Course structure
We offer a flexible course structure with a mixture of core/compulsory modules, and optional modules chosen from lists. Please be aware that we are planning changes to our first year to make it more relevant to your chosen course.
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The following modules are based on the current course structure and may change in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, such as in response to COVID-19, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Research Methods
(15 CREDITS)
Gain the key skills and competencies to carry out management research or prepare a comprehensive business plan, suitable for the completion of a Masters level programme. You address the philosophical issues underlying management research, and discover how to select methods and judge the quality and value of research outcomes.
View Research Methods on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Business Analytics for Managers and Entrepreneurs
(15 CREDITS)
Data analytics presents a massive opportunity for business leaders, managers and entrepreneurs alike in modern globalised economies. You explore how crucial data analytics is in today's business world, and consider real-world examples where businesses have harnessed this power to solve critical problems. You learn a wide variety of data mining, visual and analytical techniques which can be applied to data generated from different markets and businesses.
View Business Analytics for Managers and Entrepreneurs on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: OPTIONAL
Option from List
(15 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Dissertation
(0 CREDITS)
This module will develop your skills for successfully conducting independent research practice using a range of research methodologies for data collection and analysis.

More specifically, this module is designed to develop an essential understanding and ability in planning, carrying out and managing independent and original research, and improve skills in clearly communicating a research output through a dissertation project.
View Dissertation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Dissertation
(60 CREDITS)
Your dissertation is the culmination of your Masters programme, where you apply the knowledge gained on your course to produce a 12,000 word independent piece of work. You generate an original idea, analyse literature and current knowledge and produce a coherent argument that shows your ability to relate theory to practice. Your dissertation will help you develop vital skills for the workplace, as well as the ability to analyse real problems through an academic lens. You are assigned a supervisor for the duration of your project.
View Dissertation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Managerial Economics
(15 CREDITS)
Managerial Economics applies economic theory to business management, decision making and forward planning.  This module explores how economic concepts, such as profit, demand, cost, pricing production, competition and business cycles, can be used to solve business problems.
View Managerial Economics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Global Supply Chain and Operations Management
(15 CREDITS)
Matching the ability to supply a product or service with customer demand is vital for any organisation. Excess supply can lead to wastage and increased costs, but too little can irritate customers and result in lost revenue. Supply chain management is a complex and challenging task, but, done right, it can create significant competitive advantage. This module explores how organisations manage their product range and operations to best align supply with demand in a global environment, categorised by expanding product variety, increasing outsourcing, and continuous advances in business analytics. You explore areas such as industry competition, resource allocation, organisational learning and competitive dynamics.
View Global Supply Chain and Operations Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Data-Driven Decision Making
(15 CREDITS)
In this module, you develop the quantitative skills required to model and solve managerial challenges. You learn how to use mathematical programming methods and specialised software to represent and solve decision making problems. We equip you with a deep understanding of key optimisation methods so you can identify the most relevant approach to solve particular issues.
View Data-Driven Decision Making on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: OPTIONAL
Option(s) from list
(15 CREDITS)
Teaching
We develop your skills in leadership, team work, decision making and communication to help you secure your dream job:
our teaching is interactive; you learn through group working and applied projects
choose from a wide range of modules
take part in the Essex Business School open seminar series and hear from world-renowned academics
research is embedded into our curriculum, so you graduate ready to tackle current entrepreneurial issues
Assessment
Regular assessment is by coursework, presentations, case studies, group work, tests and examinations
Dissertation
You submit a 15,000 word dissertation
If you start this course in October, you will start work on your dissertation or work-based project during the summer term (term three) after you have completed your autumn and spring term modules.
If you start this course in January, you will start work on your dissertation or work-based project during the summer term (term two) and you will receive feedback on your first draft. You will continue to work on your dissertation during the autumn term (term three) and will have the opportunity to incorporate learnings from your autumn modules before you submit the final version at the end of the year.
A work-based project may be taken instead of a dissertation, enabling you to put your knowledge into practice by undertaking an employer work placement for between eight and twelve weeks. You'll produce a research report based around a priority issue for the organisation.
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£14,300
International fee
£22,400
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We hold
Open Days
for all our applicants throughout the year. Our Southend Campus events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex, and give you the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
If the dates of our organised events aren’t suitable for you, feel free to get in touch by emailing
southend@essex.ac.uk
and we’ll arrange an individual campus tour for you.
Applying
You can
apply for this postgraduate course online
. Before you apply, please check our information about
necessary documents
that we'll ask you to provide as part of your application.
We aim to respond to applications within two weeks. If we are able to offer you a place, you will be contacted via email.
For information on our deadline to apply for this course, please see our ‘
how to apply
' information.
Visit Southend Campus
Want to live in a central city location, with state-of-the-art facilities at your finger tips? Southend is the perfect environment for living and learning in a close-knit international community.
If you're joining our School of Health and Social Care, East 15 Acting School, or Essex Business School, you may well be studying at our Southend Campus.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Check out
our website
to find out more information about our Southend Campus, watch videos and view our campuses.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Open Days
Come see for yourself
Read all about it
Get a prospectus
Study at Essex
Find a course
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website