Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG01399%2F1%2FMSc-Applications-of-Artificial-Intelligence&auth=jRCnCu3lnDnjXWlCesIWlA&profile=_default&rank=206&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
MSc Applications of Artificial Intelligence
Postgraduate Course
MSc Applications of Artificial Intelligence
Start date
January 2025
October 2025
January 2026
Study mode
Full Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Applications of Artificial Intelligence
Start date:
January 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (School of)
Artificial intelligence (AI) is a broad area of research that uses rigorous and hands-on computational techniques to address significant problems that arise in many different disciplines, including, but not limited to, computing systems, economics, business, healthcare, games, medicine design, education and agriculture. With the rapid advance of AI, there is a growing demand for students who can understand  and promote AI to all these sectors.
Our MSc Artificial Intelligence and its Applications conversion course will equip you with a skillset on AI techniques, and prepare you for meeting demand, regardless of your academic background. You will obtain a comprehensive perspective of the current developments, the needs and the potential of AI, by participating in taught modules that promote a deep understanding  of AI methods together with others that deliver the necessary technical expertise.
Our course will cover areas including:
Machine learning
Data mining
Decision  making
Big data
Our course will give you both theoretical and technical relevant skills, and will offer you:
the understanding  of the specifics and the intricacies of AI methodologies
the ability to apply both basic and advanced AI methods
the ability to design and implement novel solutions
You will also gain transferable skills such as the ability to develop and present arguments, as well as the ability to work independently  and in groups. Within our
School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering
lies the very strong
AI for Decision  Making research group
, which will offer graduates of the course networking opportunities.
This course is developed in collaboration with industry partners and public sector organisations, which include BT, Profusion, Essex County Council, Essex Police, and Suffolk County Council. Our active links with industry can broaden your employment potential and offer placement opportunities.
This course is available on a full- and part-time basis, starting in October. You can also start this course in January, but this option is only available to those who wish to study full-time.
Why we're great.
Explore ways of linking artificial intelligence to real-world applications in a range of fields and industries
Develop a rounded understanding of theoretical, applied and practical aspects of artificial intelligence
Our Employability and Careers Centre is on hand to help with careers advice and planning. You will also have opportunities to present your research and travel to international conferences
Our expert staff
Our research covers a range of topics, from materials science and semiconductor device physics, to the theory of computation and the philosophy of computer science, with most of our research groups based around laboratories offering world-class facilities.
Our impressive external research funding stands at over £4 million and we participate in a number of EU initiatives and undertake projects under contract to many outside bodies, including government and industrial organisations.
In recent years we have attracted many highly active  research staff and we are conducting world-leading  research in areas such as evolutionary computation, brain-computer interfacing, intelligent inhabited environments and financial forecasting.
Specialist facilities
We are one of the largest and best resourced computer science and electronic engineering schools in the UK. Our work is supported by extensive networked computer facilities and software aids, together  with a wide range of test and instrumentation equipment.
We have
six laboratories
that are exclusively for computer science and electronic engineering students. Three are open 24/7, and you have free access to the labs except when there is a scheduled practical class in progress
All computers run either Windows 10 or are dual boot with Linux
Software includes Java, Prolog, C++, Perl, Mysql, Matlab, DB2, Microsoft Office, Visual Studio, and Project
Students have access to CAD tools and simulators for chip design (Xilinx) and computer networks (OPNET)
We also have specialist facilities for research into areas including non-invasive brain-computer interfaces, intelligent environments, robotics, optoelectronics, video, RF and MW, printed circuit milling, and semiconductors
Your future
With a skillset that combines both technical and analytical  know-how from our School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering, our graduates will be able to find employment in very competitive  institutions in a wide range of disciplines. A career in artificial intelligence can be realised within a wide range of sectors, including health, finance, education etc, both in the public and the private sector. Examples of specific jobs held by our AI graduates include computer/data/research scientists, software developers and analysts .
We also work with the University's
Employability and Careers Centre
to help you find out about further work experience, internships, placements, and voluntary opportunities.
Read more about computer science and electronic engineering career destinations
here.
We also offer a range of postgraduate research degrees (such as a PhD) in areas of
computer science and electronic engineering
, and
computational finance
.
"I received a
Chevening Scholarship
in order to study at Essex. It is one of a kind and globally recognised for raising Leaders that would impact positive change in their fields, local communities and in the world at large. Without the scholarship I probably would never have had the opportunity to study in the UK. The scholarship truly has had a profound impact on my life and will continue to do so in the future. Receiving this scholarship feels like being granted a global platform to showcase my potential and make a meaningful impact. I am not only empowered, but also connected with a dynamic community of leaders and talented individuals who share a common goal of driving positive change. I am proud to say that the Chevening Scholarship is not just a financial scholarship, but also an entryway to a powerful network of change-makers."
Vincent Nnamdi, MSc Artificial Intelligence and its Applications
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
A 2:2 honours degree, or equivalent, in any subject.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If English is not your first language, we require IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum component score of 5.5
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Additional Notes
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to successfully complete a course at the University of Essex. Where appropriate, we may ask for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
Structure
Course structure
We offer a flexible course structure with a mixture of core/compulsory modules, and optional modules chosen from lists.
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The course content is therefore reviewed on an annual basis to ensure our courses remain up-to-date so modules listed are subject to change.
The example structure below is representative of this course if taken full-time. If you choose to study part-time, the modules will be split across two years.
Please note that if you are studying full-time (either starting in October or January) there is no second year; you will develop your dissertation throughout the course of your single year.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Professional Practice and Research Methodology
(15 CREDITS)
This module aims to prepare students for conducting an independent research project leading to a dissertation and to provide them with an appreciation of research and business skills related to their professional career. As a precursor to their project students, individually select an area of Computer Science, or Electronic Engineering, or Computational Finance and perform the necessary background research to define a topic and prepare a project proposal under the  guidance of a supervisor. The module guides them by a) introducing common research methods b) creating an understanding of basic statistics for describing and making conclusions from data c) helping to write a strong proposal including learning how to perform literature search and evaluation and d) giving an in-depth view into the business enterprise, financial and management accounting and investment appraisal.
View Professional Practice and Research Methodology on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
An Approachable Introduction to Programming
(15 CREDITS)
This module will help you develop your coding skills, and assumes you have no prior coding skills. The language used will be ‘Python’, which is well known as an introductory programming language, with the ability to learn starting with a simple single line of code approach. As your coding skills develop, you will be able to review and debug simple code, as a route to developing your own code, through the assembling of coding blocks. You will have the opportunity to experience code relevant to your own course, and to develop code that is useful within your degree context.
View An Approachable Introduction to Programming on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Information Retrieval
(15 CREDITS)
Search engines have become the first entry point into a world of knowledge and they form an essential part of many modern computer applications. While much of the underlying principles have been developed over decades, the landscape of search engine technology has changed dramatically in recent years to deal with data sources magnitudes larger than ever before (the rise of 'big data'). As a result of this, new paradigms for storing, indexing and accessing information have emerged. This module will provide the essential foundation of information retrieval and equip students with solid, applicable knowledge of state-of-the-art search technology.
View Information Retrieval on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Foundational Mathematics for Data Science
(15 CREDITS)
In this module you will be introduced to the necessary mathematical foundations and tools for working with data. You will become familiar with standard mathematical notation and concepts, and with common techniques such as differentiation, integration, metrics, vectors and matrices.
View Foundational Mathematics for Data Science on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Group Project
(15 CREDITS)
Teamwork skills are essential for employability.  The aim of this module is to provide students with the opportunity to apply their specialised knowledge to a realistic problem and gain practical experience of the processes involved in the team-based production of software. Wherever possible, teams are organised on the basis of shared interest, and the problem is designed to exercise their understanding of their area of specialised study. Starting from an outline description of a realistic problem, each team is required to develop a fully implemented software solution using appropriate engineering and project management techniques.
View Group Project on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Artificial intelligence and machine learning with applications
(15 CREDITS)
This module introduces Artificial Intelligence (AI), the science of making computers and machines display intelligent behaviour. This multidisciplinary activity draws from computer sciences, mathematics and statistics, and also elements of philosophy, logic and even psychology. Today, AI is ubiquitous in society, from self-driving cars to spam filters and finance trading to video games. The increasing dependence on AI will reshape society and economy. Understanding AI principles, applications, and limitations is important for all students, regardless of their background, and this module assumes no prior knowledge. This module provides both theoretical and practical techniques, covering AI theory and fundamentals of machine learning models, as well as their implementation and applications.
View Artificial intelligence and machine learning with applications on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: OPTIONAL
Options from list
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 08: COMPULSORY
MSc Project and Dissertation Preparation
(0 CREDITS)
View MSc Project and Dissertation Preparation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 01: CORE WITH OPTIONS
CE901-7-AU or CE911-7-AU
(60 CREDITS)
Teaching
Modules provide a thorough and up-to-date knowledge of the theory, methods and applications of artificial intelligence
Core components combined with optional modules, to enable you to gain either in-depth specialisation or a breadth of understanding
Our postgraduates are encouraged to attend conferences and seminars, as well as engage with the wider research community
Assessment
On this course you are assessed mostly by coursework and projects, but this does vary from module to module
Some modules may also incorporate written examinations
Dissertation
Your research project allows you to focus in depth on your chosen topic
Close supervision by faculty staff
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£11,550
International fee
£22,400
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We hold
Open Days
for all our applicants throughout the year. Our Colchester Campus events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex, and give you the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
If the dates of our organised events aren’t suitable for you, feel free to get in touch by emailing
tours@essex.ac.uk
and we’ll arrange an individual campus tour for you.
Applying
You can
apply for this postgraduate course online
. Before you apply, please check our information about
necessary documents
that we'll ask you to provide as part of your application.
We aim to respond to applications within two weeks. If we are able to offer you a place, you will be contacted via email.
For information on our deadline to apply for this course, please see our ‘
how to apply
' information.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree
virtual tour
allows you to explore the Colchester Campus from the comfort of your home. Check out our accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Life at Essex
What it's like to live at Essex
Accommodation
Find your new home
Open Days
Come see for yourself
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website