Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG01381%2F1%2FMSc-Financial-Technology-Economics&auth=ywoSYRv1umMZIiTjWupu2A&profile=_default&rank=213&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
MSc Financial Technology (Economics)
Postgraduate Course
MSc Financial Technology
(Economics)
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Part Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Financial Technology (Economics)
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Economics
Are you looking for a career in the emerging industry of Financial Technology? Electronic stock markets, mobile banking, cryptocurrencies, robo advisors, copy trading and peer-peer platforms are transforming the financial services sector. The MSc Financial Technology (Economics) takes a multi-disciplinary perspective that combines economics, computer science and business theory to explore the theory and methods of this growth area.
This course allows a deeper dive into the economics of market microstructure for design of trading strategies, managing operational risks and market design for electronic markets such as peer-to-peer platforms.
Our world leading Economics professors provide research led teaching and project supervision based on our own research strengths; including high frequency trading in electronic order books, agent-based modelling, and the economics of data science.
You will learn about microeconomics and big data, software development and the underpinnings of the financial system. You will receive direct teaching inputs or supervision on projects from leading researchers in the
Department of Economics.
You will benefit from research-led teaching, including staff research-based software solutions included in the curriculum.
You will benefit from our proximity to London as well as our connections with employers, some of whom are successful Essex alumni, who contribute to expert lectures.
You will mingle not only with students specialising in the economics of FinTech, but also those specialising on the computer science and business strategy sides.
Hands on lab sessions accompany lectures with high frequency finance software based on real time rebuilds for the London Stock Exchange Electronic Trading System (SETS).
To explore the programming aspects of this industry, take a look at
MSc Financial Technology (Computer Science)
, or the business aspects in
MSc Financial Technology (Finance)
.
Why we're great.
Top 25 in the UK for economics and econometrics in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2024
We are 4th in UK for research power in economics and econometrics (Times Higher Education research power measure, Research Excellence Framework 2021)
We provide access to extensive quantitative analysis software and a large number of economics databases, across our Economics, Business and Computer Science Departments.
Our expert staff
Professor Sheri Markose
received her PhD in Economics from the LSE and has a longstanding reputation for pioneering interdisciplinary Computational Finance. She was the founder director of the Essex Centre for Computational Finance and Economic Agents (2001 - 2009).  Sheri is doing foundational research on blockchain distributed ledgers and serves as an Associate Editor of Frontiers Computational Intelligence in Robotics and AI.
Professor Simon Weidenholzer
joined Essex after both receiving his PhD in Economics at the University of Vienna and working as an Assistant Professor in the same department.  His work covers microeconomics, game theory, evolutionary game theory, behavioural economics, social networks and industrial organisation. His most recent work involves theoretical and laboratory studies of crowdfunding, copy trading, and robo-advisors.
Dr. Christoph Siemroth
received his PhD in Economics from the University of Mannheim. His fields of expertise include behavioural and experimental economics, financial economics, and organizational economics. His recent work includes study of the informational content in asset prices, prediction markets, crowdfunding, and optimal budgeting.
Dr. Ahrash Dianat
completed his PhD in Economics at George Mason University (USA). Ahrash then took a post-doctoral post at the California Institute of Technology (“Caltech”) before joining the University of Essex. Ahrash specialises in experimental economics, behavioural economics, and market design. His work has included studies of corporate prediction markets.
Dr. David Zentler-Munro
comes to Essex from his PhD in Economics at UCL and a post as Senior Policy Advisor at the UK Department of the Treasury. His work focuses on search models and labour markets. His recent work uses machine learning to study labour market behaviour.
Specialist facilities
Students in the
Department of Economics
have access to quantitative analysis software, such as Microsoft Office, MatLab, Stata, Python, R, and Eviews which can be accessed remotely and from all university computer labs and are staples of the financial industry. You will acquire practical and “hands-on” experience in the programmes as part of the course. Computer labs on campus are open 24/7 and run on Windows 10 or are dual boot with Linux. Your lectures benefit from Listen Again facilities to aid your study, and the department provides extra support to those who need it. You will be studying on our Colchester Campus with ample access to the
School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering
and
Essex Business School
.
You'll also benefit from fantastic University
facilities
located on campus, including the
Albert Sloman Library
and our state-of-the-art Silberrad Student Centre, complete with an open-access 24-hour Learning Hub and a cutting-edge media centre. You benefit from access to a wide range of specialised banking and finance databases, textbooks and e-books and can book appointments with our subject librarian.
You will also benefit from the Knowledge Gateway, home to some of the region's most exciting enterprises in the science, technology, and creative sectors. The Knowledge Gateway provides potential networking and career opportunities for students on campus.
Your future
The MSc Financial Technology (Economics) is designed for students seeking a career in the finance industry, in particular the financial technology sector.  Recent graduates include those who work as:
Fund Managers (Jupiter Fund)
Data Scientists (Lloyds Bank)
Risk Managers (HSBC)
The degree will provide you first and foremost with the multi-disciplinary training you will need to see your subject from all sides and communicate effectively as part of a team. This course will equip you with both theoretical and technical skills that are specific for the finance industry. It will also equip you with transferable skills such as the ability to develop and present an argument, as well as lab-based operational skills. Work is undertaken both individually and in groups to broaden your experience.
The Economics Department provides regular events where alumni return to chart their journey from Essex to their career to provide you with tailored knowledge of your own potential trajectories.
Many of our graduates enjoy careers in financial analysis, management, banking, public administration, and other applications of economics, including SMEs. Recent destinations include:
The Bank of England
Coca-Cola
HSBC
KPMG
PwC
Google
Morgan Stanley
Our Student Support team work closely with the University's
Employability and Careers Services
to help you with careers information and advice and CV support. They will help you find work experience, internships, placements and voluntary opportunities and provide access to employer talks on campus.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
A 2:2 degree, or international equivalent, in any discipline which includes three relevant modules in:
Econometrics (or Maths, or Statistics)
Macroeconomics
Microeconomics
We will consider applicants with any other 2:2 degree in one of the following subjects:
Computer Science
Engineering
Mathematics
Physics
Statistics
We will also consider applicants with any other 2:2 degree or above where there is one year's relevant work experience, after graduating.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum component score of 5.5
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Structure
Course structure
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The following modules are based on the current course structure and may change in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Dissertation
(40 CREDITS)
What interests you? Undertake a research project of your choosing, studying a specific economic issue or set of problems in depth, with supervision from our world-leading academic staff. Gain experience of original and independent work, making use of and building on skills that you have acquired during your Masters.
View Dissertation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Computational Market Microstructure for FinTech and the Digital Economy
(20 CREDITS)
Equip yourself with principles of allocation and mechanism design from an operational perspective. Auction design and market microstructure of the stock market, liquidity provision in electronic financial markets such as dark pools, and capital adequacy of centralized clearing platforms are some of the specific applications that will be studied in the first part of this module. During the second part, you will be introduced to complexity economics of self-organisation, network modules, and strategic proteanism. Finally, you'll use network models to study economic interactions.
View Computational Market Microstructure for FinTech and the Digital Economy on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Big Data in Finance
(20 CREDITS)
Big data - where datasets are so large they cannot be processed using traditional techniques – is useful to financial organisations. This module explores how to analyse big data and covers areas such as predictive analytics, risk modelling and corporate finance. You also learn about the application of data analytics in high frequency finance, fraud and personal finance.
View Big Data in Finance on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: CORE WITH OPTIONS
CE705-7-AT or CE157-7-AU
(20 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Economics of Financial Markets
(20 CREDITS)
Study the concepts of risk and return in equity markets, both in the context of asset pricing, and in the management of equity portfolios. You will start by focusing on the analysis of the stylised facts of asset returns, and will then review the theoretical foundations of modern finance, covering expected utility theory and risk aversion.
View Economics of Financial Markets on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: OPTIONAL
Options from list
(60 CREDITS)
Teaching
Postgraduate students in the Department of Economics typically attend a two-hour lecture and a one-hour class or lab for each module per week.
Core components can be combined with optional modules to enable you to gain either in-depth specialisation or a breadth of understanding across several topics
Our postgraduates are encouraged to attend conferences and seminars
Assessment
Each module is assessed with a final examination and a coursework component
Coursework is taken in the form of a term paper or a midterm test
Dissertation
You undertake an individually supervised research project that involves the in-depth study of a specific economic problem or issue
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£15,000
International fee
£23,500
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We hold
Open Days
for all our applicants throughout the year. Our Colchester Campus events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex, and give you the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
If the dates of our organised events aren’t suitable for you, feel free to get in touch by emailing
tours@essex.ac.uk
and we’ll arrange an individual campus tour for you.
Applying
You can
apply for this postgraduate course online
. Before you apply, please check our information about
necessary documents
that we'll ask you to provide as part of your application.
We aim to respond to applications within two weeks. If we are able to offer you a place, you will be contacted via email.
For information on our deadline to apply for this course, please see our ‘
how to apply
' information.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree
virtual tour
allows you to explore the Colchester Campus from the comfort of your home. Check out our accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Life at Essex
What it's like to live at Essex
Accommodation
Find your new home
Open Days
Come see for yourself
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website