Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG00670%2F3%2FMSc-Management&auth=pTBTmQfTrrwzVrcvA9Bcpw&profile=_default&rank=8&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
MSc Management
Postgraduate Course
MSc Management
(Marketing)
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Part Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Management (Marketing)
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Essex Business School
Marketing management requires professionals who can combine creative thinking with strategic planning to deliver on the wider business objectives of an organisation. You will need to demonstrate skills in the fields of both management and marketing to succeed as an effective marketing manager.
MSc Management (Marketing) is perfect if you do not have a first degree in business or marketing, or relevant work experience in management.
As one of our Masters of management specialisms, you will study a core spine of management and organisational issues in term one. You will then specialise in marketing and marketing management in your second term where you will explore issues like consumer behaviour, digital marketing, strategic brand communication and marketing innovation. Through this management programme, you can align your course with your career aspirations so that you graduate with a perfectly tailored Masters degree in marketing and management.
MSc Management (Marketing) covers contemporary marketing and management issues, such as:
the impact of social media on consumer behaviour
consumer relationships
brand communication
marketing strategy
We ensure that your education in management is both theoretical and practical, allowing you to develop expertise in a chosen area of marketing management.
At
Essex Business School
we champion responsible management and sustainable business. We want to change business for the better and empower our students to do this too. By using current research in our teaching, you'll explore the management and marketing issues affecting organisations across the globe right now and so you'll graduate with a Masters degree with a real-world focus.
MSc Management (Marketing) is one of four unique Masters in Management which allow you to pursue your specific career ambitions, the others are:
MSc Management
,
MSc Management (Social Economy)
and
MSc Management (International)
.
Professional accreditation
Accredited by The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) for the purpose of gaining CIM qualifications through the Graduate Gateway.
Why we're great.
Build your marketing expertise in our Students' Union Creative Suite that mirrors the offices of modern marketing agencies.
This course is accredited by The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) meaning you can earn exemptions towards your professional graduate qualifications.
This course is perfect if you do not have a first degree in business or marketing, or relevant work experience in management.
Our expert staff
Management and marketing research at Essex Business School is very diverse but can best be described as exploring business with a social conscience.  For example, our research investigates workplace ethics, corporate social responsibility and the lived experience of work in the global economy.
For example, one of the academics that you may meet during your course
Dr Maged Ali
is a Reader in Marketing at Essex Business School and an expert on Big Data. His research interests are around leveraging big data technologies and methodologies to provide insights in a very easy visual format for decision makers in various contexts including finance and marketing.
The research activities of academics in our
Management and Marketing Group
is supported by the
COVER (Commons Organising Values Equalities and Resilience).
The Centre is made up of an interdisciplinary set of scholars whose research aims to promote collaborative advantage, collective intelligence and “open source” problem solving both within communities and globally.
Specialist facilities
MSc Management (Marketing) is based at our
Colchester Campus
.
You'll be studying at
Essex Business School
, home to the first zero carbon business school in the UK – demonstrating our sustainable approach to business first-hand. Set around a lush winter garden, with shared spaces to encourage collaborative working, you'll find a wealth of inspiring teaching and study zones:
learn in modern lecture theatres with ‘listen again' recording to aid your study
access to Mintel market share and forecast data for consumer market analysis
utilise study booths in our winter garden and versatile break out areas for group working throughout the building
dynamic blended learning provision for uninterrupted study and engaging online lectures virtual guest speakers
study skills support
provided by the Essex Business School Learning Team
networking opportunities with visiting businesses and careers events
Bonds café and adjacent foyer to enjoy on-site fresh food and drink
You'll also benefit from fantastic University
facilities
located close by, including our state-of-the-art Silberrad Student Centre, complete with an open-access 24-hour Learning Hub.
Why not try the
Creative Studios
? Equipped with top of the range kit, all of the computers here have the full Adobe Creative Cloud suite installed, which means you have access to Photoshop, InDesign, Premiere Pro, After Effects and loads more. With a similar feel to the offices of modern marketing agencies the free-to-use technology can greatly enhance your projects and give you hands-on experience for your CV.
Our building is located on the
Knowledge Gateway
, home to some of the region's most exciting enterprises in the science, technology and creative sectors. The Knowledge Gateway provides potential networking and career opportunities for students directly on campus.
Your future
With a degree from Essex Business School, you will be an attractive candidate to high-profile employers and can target roles including global CSR consultant, public administrator and management accountant. Our graduates have entered high-profile organisations and exciting SMEs, such as:
Groupon
HP
KPMG
fast-growing digital agency, Footprint Digital
We encourage you to be creative, innovative and consider the ethical implications of business, so you also have an excellent foundation to start your own business, should you wish.
Our
Student Support team
work closely with the University's
Employability and Careers
service to help you with careers information and advice and CV support. They will help you find work experience, internships, placements and voluntary opportunities and provide access to employer talks on campus. We also work closely with the Essex Startups team to support our budding entrepreneurs get their business ideas off the ground.
"I enjoyed virtually everything about my Masters experience: the open and friendly lecturers and the course modules, specifically Consumer Behaviour. My advice to students who want to study marketing is to be inquisitive but open. Marketing isn't about selling to customers but understanding what works for and with customers. Too many do marketing to sell things to customers or think marketing is about making things look nice, when it is so much more and can be used as a subject to innovate and be creative."
Ryan Winham
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
A 2:2 degree, or international equivalent, in any discipline.
You may also be considered with a lower class degree, where you have
at least one year’s
relevant work experience in a field such as: Management or Project Management (please provide your CV).
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If English is not your first language, we require IELTS 6.5 overall with a minimum component score of 6.0 in writing and 5.5 in all other components.
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Additional Notes
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to successfully complete a course at the University of Essex. Where appropriate, we may ask for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
Structure
Course structure
We offer a flexible course structure with a mixture of core/compulsory modules, and optional modules chosen from lists.
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The following modules are based on the current course structure and may change in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
COMPONENT 01: CORE WITH OPTIONS
BE988-7-FY or BE970-7-PS or BE972-7-FY
(60 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Management and Strategy
(20 CREDITS)
This module is designed to encourage students to reflect on a variety of issues relating to management and business strategy. It will introduce students to the basics of management such as dealing with teams, culture and organisational management structures. It will then introduce students to managing strategically, covering topics that involve the analysis of the external and internal environments of the business as well as avenues for implementation.

Consequently, the module offers an insight into a range of current business issues, management dilemmas, ethical considerations, and general governance issues relating to the strategic direction of organisations. Overall, the module provides an introduction to management and strategy and a critical examination of its application in practice.
View Management and Strategy on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Organisational Behaviour and Human Resource Management
(20 CREDITS)
This module is designed to encourage students to think and reflect upon the nature of managing people and organisations. In particular, it encourages students to consider the main topics of Organisational Behaviour and Human Resource Management. Throughout the sessions, the core issues affecting organisational behaviour and outcomes will be discussed and critically analysed. Therefore, it invites participants to consider the tensions emerging from competing views and perspectives. In so doing, the module challenges many of the taken-for-granted assumptions about people management, and provides tools to analyse organisations and to explore the realities of organisational life.
View Organisational Behaviour and Human Resource Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Accounting and Finance for Managers
(20 CREDITS)
It is essential for any manager to be able to analyse the performance of companies and take financial decisions. This module will start by examining how publicly available information can aid in analysing the performance of companies, and critically evaluating the limitations of financial performance measures. This part of the module will cover the contents of the annual report, preparation of main financial statements and evaluating the financial performance of companies based on publicly available information. The second part of the module will critically examine a range of issues that relate to financial and managerial decision-making, including cost behaviour, capital investment decisions, cost volume profit analysis and budgeting.
View Accounting and Finance for Managers on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Research Methods in Management
(20 CREDITS)
This module introduces students to the methodology and methods of research in the field of Management. Students are acquainted with the nature of the philosophical assumptions that underpin the choice of research design, in particular case studies for data collection and analysis. The module explores a variety of quantitative and qualitative methods to illustrate the suitability of these methods for designing research projects. The ethical, practical and legal questions raised by research are explored. Practical aspects of the research process are examined including the skills required to evaluate published research, organise and undertake a research project within the body of relevant knowledge, and make practical and actionable recommendations.
View Research Methods in Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Marketing and Innovation
(20 CREDITS)
The aim of this module is to introduce students to the theory and practice of marketing. It will present some of the key principles of marketing, particularly useful for those not previously familiar with the subject area. In addition, it will cover some topics important to the contemporary marketing context including consumer behaviour, relationship marketing, and digital marketing. It introduces marketing theories and models while also providing a critical perspective on the effects of these to political, social, and cultural life. Further, the module focuses on the management of innovation activities within a marketing context. It introduces the management of innovation and technology as a multiple perspective approach, which incorporates the key areas of the business and management including innovation and marketing together.
View Marketing and Innovation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: COMPULSORY
Consumer Behaviour
(20 CREDITS)
This module evidences how buyer behaviour plays an essential role in marketing strategy. You consider how marketers use consumer insights and behaviour theory and look beyond the act of buying to consider the entire consumption cycle, from pre to post-purchase. You explore consumer behaviour theories in relation to market consumption, viewing consumers as individuals, decision-makers and social beings, and discuss the wider implications of living in a consumer society.
View Consumer Behaviour on our Module Directory
Teaching
Courses focus on practical applications and links with industry
We run an open seminar series
Assessment
Regular assessment is by coursework, presentations, case studies, group work, tests and examinations.
Dissertation
You will complete a 15,000 word dissertation.
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£15,000
International fee
£23,500
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We hold
Open Days
for all our applicants throughout the year. Our Colchester Campus events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex, and give you the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
If the dates of our organised events aren’t suitable for you, feel free to get in touch by emailing
tours@essex.ac.uk
and we’ll arrange an individual campus tour for you.
Applying
You can
apply for this postgraduate course online
. Before you apply, please check our information about
necessary documents
that we'll ask you to provide as part of your application.
We aim to respond to applications within two weeks. If we are able to offer you a place, you will be contacted via email.
For information on our deadline to apply for this course, please see our ‘
how to apply
' information.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree
virtual tour
allows you to explore the Colchester Campus from the comfort of your home. Check out our accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Related courses
MSc Management (International)
Study mode:
Full-time
Part-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
MSc Management
Study mode:
Full-time
Part-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
MSc Management (Social Economy)
Study mode:
Full-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Life at Essex
What it's like to live at Essex
Accommodation
Find your new home
Open Days
Come see for yourself
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website