Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG01102%2F1%2FMSc-International-Logistics-and-Supply-Chain-Management&auth=8t%2Fcd960NZl6KxmEOVreoQ&profile=_default&rank=157&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
MSc International Logistics and Supply Chain Management
Postgraduate Course
MSc International Logistics and Supply Chain Management
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Part Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
International Logistics and Supply Chain Management
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year
Location:
Southend Campus
Based in:
Essex Business School
In order to gain a competitive edge for management roles in the logistics and transport sectors international logistics and supply chain managers need to use data and analytics to improve business performance.
MSc International Logistics and Supply Chain Management trains you in analytical approaches and applying management techniques to solve business problems arising from supply chains, including areas such as transportation, warehousing and inventory and supplier relations. It has been designed with industry input in response to sector skills gaps and is located at our
Southend
campus, close to London's major port, providing potential opportunities for site visits and placements.
You explore topics including:
global supply chain management, planning and control
international operations management
business analytics, applied statistics and forecasting
environmentally-friendly logistics
logistics planning and control
business strategy and strategic management
innovation management
This course draws upon
Essex Business School's
strengths in big data and analytics to help you be a more effective logistics manager.
We develop your practical skills in data analysis so you can better understand markets, consumers and competitors to improve business performance. Computer-generated simulations expose you to a range of business scenarios, helping you to understand how managers and entrepreneurs use analytics to solve logistics problems.
Another unique feature of this course is a focus on green logistics, addressing employer needs for greater training in this area.
With organisations coming under increasing pressure to manage issues around waste, recycling, transportation and raw materials, many businesses lack qualified staff who can ensure compliance with environmental law. We can equip you with the knowledge and skills to design and operate efficient and sustainable supply chains and logistics networks to give you a distinct career advantage.
Professional accreditation
CILT accreditation offers the students an introduction to a professional body. Students studying on an accredited course will receive an exemption from the academic requirements for membership at either Chartered Member or membership level of the CILT. It may also reduce the length of experience that they would also require.
Why we're great.
Become an expert in a field that is of crucial importance to business today.
Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport in the UK (CILT) meaning you can be confident you're developing relevant professional skills.
Take advantage of the benefits of studying close to London's major logistics hubs.
Our expert staff
Based in Southend-on-Sea, members of the Strategy, Operations and Entrepreneurship Group have well-established reputations for research in:
entrepreneurship and innovation, with a special focus on under-represented groups
global sustainable supply chains
international business, particularly with reference to emerging markets
research and development management
data analytics
corporate social responsibility activities
During your course, you'll have the opportunity to learn from
Professor Niraj Kumar
, Professor of Operations and Supply Chain Management at Essex Business School.
Professor Kumar has published extensively on various aspects of operations and supply chain management in reputed international journals and books. His research interests are primarily in sustainable operations and supply chain management; food supply chains; supply chain innovation and big data practices in supply chains.
Academic members of staff from our Strategy, Operations and Entrepreneurship Group are supported in their research activities by our flourishing
Centre for Research on Entrepreneurship, Innovation, Management and Internationalisation (REIMI)
.
The Centre is well known for international business research on emerging-market multinational enterprises (MNEs); technology management; novel research in migrant entrepreneurship and firm internationalisation.
Specialist facilities
MSc International Logistics and Supply Chain Management is taught at our
Southend Campus
, close to the principle port for London and Britain's Greenest Port.
A major logistics hub for the South of England, The Port of Tilbury is the largest deep-water port on the River Thames and provides potential opportunities for site visits and student projects. London Southend Airport is just five minutes from campus by train, and offers flights to over 50 destinations across Europe – providing excellent opportunities for work placements or case studies.
Choose our Southend Campus for your studies, and you'll have access to a superb learning environment with state-of-the-art
facilities
, including:
our award-winning The Forum building, with an extensive public and academic library and café
24-hour learning hub, with group-study spaces, PC access and places for quiet study
Essex Business School Student Services team to support your time at EBS
masters study suite for EBS postgraduate students
modern lecture theatres and seminar rooms
careers
support, events and initiatives
studyskills support
provided by the Essex Business School Learning Team
our cosy SU Lounge, with pool tables and large-screen TV for socialising and relaxation
Southend-on-Sea combines the charms of a traditional seaside resort with the attractions of a vibrant, modern town and our campus sits right at the centre.  With seven miles of coastline, a thriving arts and cultural scene and a wide variety of restaurants and nightlife all on your doorstep, it's the perfect place to live and study.  Our town centre location has excellent transport links too, with London only 40 minutes away by train.
Your future
A Master's degree in International Logistics and Supply Chain Management will develop the industry-specific skills and management expertise you need to gain the competitive edge for management roles in the logistics and transport sectors. Typical roles include:
Project Manager
Logistics Planner
Warehouse Supervisor
Logistics Controller
Quality Manager
Logistics Network Developer
Procurement Manager
Your knowledge of business analytics to improve business performance may also make you a suitable candidate for general management positions in both large and small organisations in the private and public sectors.  Many of our graduates also go on to pursue a career in academia.
Read our
graduate profiles
to find out the types of organisations our Masters students go on to work for.
Our
Student Support team
work closely with the University's
Employability and Careers
service to help you with careers information and advice and CV support. They will help you find work experience, internships, placements and voluntary opportunities and provide access to employer talks on campus. We also work closely with the Essex Startups team to support our budding entrepreneurs get their business ideas off the ground.
“The lectures did not only teach from the book but also used real case-studies to help me understand more about the modules. Almost every module provided the last hour for students to discuss certain cases according to the themes of the module.”
“Since graduating, I have been working for a supply chain financing and technology company. So far, the supply chain management modules have been really helpful for me. I didn't expect that working in a supply chain position means literally take care of the whole supply chain, but I learned so much through this job.”
Lisa Nurfhatia Prizasaputri, MSc International Logistics and Supply Chain Management
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
A 2:2 degree, or international equivalent in one of the following subjects:
Accounting
Computer Science
Economics
Engineering Science
Finance
Information Systems
International Logistics and Supply Chain Management
Statistics
We will also consider a 2:2 degree in any other subject, which includes at least one of the following modules:
Advanced Maths
Applied Maths
Biostatistics
Calculus
Economic Statistics
Engineering Maths
Management Science
Mathematical Methods
Operations Research
Probability
Pure Maths
Quantitative Analysis
Quantitative methods
Statistics
You may also be considered with a lower class degree or a degree in other subject area, where you have
at least two year’s
relevant work experience in a data science related field (please provide your CV).
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If English is not your first language, we require IELTS 6.5 overall with a minimum score of  5.5 in all components.
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English
pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Additional Notes
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to
successfully complete a course at the University of Essex. Where appropriate, we may ask
for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
Structure
Course structure
We offer a flexible course structure with a mixture of core/compulsory modules, and optional modules chosen from lists. Please be aware that we are planning changes to our first year to make it more relevant to your chosen course.
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The following modules are based on the current course structure and may change in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Dissertation
(60 CREDITS)
Your dissertation is the culmination of your Masters programme, where you apply the knowledge gained on your course to produce a 12,000 word independent piece of work. You generate an original idea, analyse literature and current knowledge and produce a coherent argument that shows your ability to relate theory to practice. Your dissertation will help you develop vital skills for the workplace, as well as the ability to analyse real problems through an academic lens. You are assigned a supervisor for the duration of your project.
View Dissertation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Global Supply Chain and Operations Management
(15 CREDITS)
Matching the ability to supply a product or service with customer demand is vital for any organisation. Excess supply can lead to wastage and increased costs, but too little can irritate customers and result in lost revenue. Supply chain management is a complex and challenging task, but, done right, it can create significant competitive advantage. This module explores how organisations manage their product range and operations to best align supply with demand in a global environment, categorised by expanding product variety, increasing outsourcing, and continuous advances in business analytics. You explore areas such as industry competition, resource allocation, organisational learning and competitive dynamics.
View Global Supply Chain and Operations Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Business Analytics for Managers and Entrepreneurs
(15 CREDITS)
Data analytics presents a massive opportunity for business leaders, managers and entrepreneurs alike in modern globalised economies. You explore how crucial data analytics is in today's business world, and consider real-world examples where businesses have harnessed this power to solve critical problems. You learn a wide variety of data mining, visual and analytical techniques which can be applied to data generated from different markets and businesses.
View Business Analytics for Managers and Entrepreneurs on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Logistics and Supply Chain Planning and Control
(15 CREDITS)
This module explores the planning, management and control of logistics and supply chain operations. We look at the areas to consider when designing and managing logistic and supply chain networks. You learn the basics of production planning, including Material Requirements Planning (MRP) and Just-in-Time (JIT) systems, inventory management and quality management. You also explore mathematical and computational models that can support your decision making.
View Logistics and Supply Chain Planning and Control on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Data-Driven Decision Making
(15 CREDITS)
In this module, you develop the quantitative skills required to model and solve managerial challenges. You learn how to use mathematical programming methods and specialised software to represent and solve decision making problems. We equip you with a deep understanding of key optimisation methods so you can identify the most relevant approach to solve particular issues.
View Data-Driven Decision Making on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Research Methods
(15 CREDITS)
Gain the key skills and competencies to carry out management research or prepare a comprehensive business plan, suitable for the completion of a Masters level programme. You address the philosophical issues underlying management research, and discover how to select methods and judge the quality and value of research outcomes.
View Research Methods on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: OPTIONAL
Option(s) from list
(30 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 08: OPTIONAL
Option from list
(15 CREDITS)
Teaching
you learn via a combination of lectures, seminars and lab-based sessions
you study a selection of compulsory modules and can choose two elective modules to tailor the course to your career aspirations
you have the option to attend regular research seminars outside of your course to gain access to cutting-edge thinking from leading academics
Assessment
You are assessed via a combination of group work, presentations, reports, project works and exams.
Dissertation
You undertake an applied research project about a real-world organisation or issue in the field of logistics and supply chain management.
The dissertation demonstrates your grasp of the theoretical and practical skills you acquire throughout your course.
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£15,000
International fee
£23,500
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We hold
Open Days
for all our applicants throughout the year. Our Southend Campus events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex, and give you the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
If the dates of our organised events aren’t suitable for you, feel free to get in touch by emailing
southend@essex.ac.uk
and we’ll arrange an individual campus tour for you.
Applying
You can
apply for this postgraduate course online
. Before you apply, please check our information about
necessary documents
that we'll ask you to provide as part of your application.
We aim to respond to applications within two weeks. If we are able to offer you a place, you will be contacted via email.
For information on our deadline to apply for this course, please see our ‘
how to apply
' information.
Visit Southend Campus
Want to live in a central city location, with state-of-the-art facilities at your finger tips? Southend is the perfect environment for living and learning in a close-knit international community.
If you're joining our School of Health and Social Care, East 15 Acting School, or Essex Business School, you may well be studying at our Southend Campus.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Check out
our website
to find out more information about our Southend Campus, watch videos and view our campuses.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Open Days
Come see for yourself
Read all about it
Get a prospectus
Study at Essex
Find a course
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website