Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG01014%2F1%2FMSc-Financial-Data-Analytics&auth=Y4uo8zRama8yeexkidk5nA&profile=_default&rank=262&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
MSc Financial Data Analytics
Postgraduate Course
MSc Financial Data Analytics
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Financial Data Analytics
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Essex Business School
If you want to explore how big data streams influence financial and statistical modelling on a daily basis and gain an understanding on how data from social networks and search engine analytics can change how an investment matures, MSc Finance and Data Analytics is for you.
The finance and investments sector needs practitioners who have a fundamental understanding of financial markets who can also apply statistical modelling in the context of the growing, and increasingly complex, data available to financial firms.
This course is perfect for those with an interest in big data and data analysis who want to work in specialist roles within the finance and investments sector.
MSc Finance and Data Analytics prepares you for the financial services industry by equipping you with the quantitative, statistical and technical skills needed in a world powered by big data.
You master areas including:
big data
portfolio analysis
financial modelling
data analytics
trading global markets
The University of Essex is uniquely placed to offer a Masters in Finance and Data Analytics. The University is home to the
ESRC Business and Local Government Data Research Centre
, which helps local authorities and businesses across the UK to leverage data more effectively, as well as the
UK Data Service
who provide access to quality economic and social data to organisations across the UK.
Studying MSc Finance and Data Analytics at
Essex Business School
, where this course is taught, means that you have access to some of the most unique financial research in the UK, supported by these two large big data centres of excellence.
Our
virtual trading floor
ensures you gain practical experience of using industry-standard terminals and real-world business information.
Discover our trading floor:
Why we're great.
Our Financial Market Labs give you access to market-leading Bloomberg business data so you can test your financial models.
The perfect course if you have an interest in big data and data analysis and want to work in specialist roles within the finance and investment sector.
Hear from guest speakers from industry to advance your professional knowledge.
Our expert staff
Finance
research at Essex Business School is world-leading in a number of areas, including:
banking
corporate finance
behavioural finance
financial econometrics
forecasting
commodities markets
Our expert finance researchers work alongside the financial industry, regulators and policy-makers both in the UK (for example at the Royal Bank of Scotland and the Bank of England) and internationally (such as the European Central Bank, the Federal Reserve and the Bank for International Settlements). This ensures their research is having a genuine impact on people's everyday lives.
You'll be taught by this team of experts, including
Dr Thanos Verousis
. Thanos is a Reader in Finance at Essex Business School and specialises in the study of financial markets and market microstructure with a particular focus on understanding investor behaviour in the context of exchange market structures.
His work has appeared in journals such as the Journal of Banking and Finance, the Journal of Futures Markets and the Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money. He has received funding from a large UK bank and the ESRC and has acted as an expert witness in a legal case on financial regulation. Thanos makes extensive use of his industry connections to invite a range of guest speakers into his modules; he recently published two blog posts outlining why this is such a beneficial approach for his students:
Bringing industry experts into the online classroom
.
Why guest speakers make a positive contribution to student motivation and employability
.
All our finance researchers are members of
the Essex Finance Centre (EFiC)
, our research centre that promotes internationally renowned, high-quality academic research in areas such as asset pricing, banking, behavioural finance and financial modelling.
Finance academics are also members of
the Essex Centre for Macro and Financial Econometrics
, our interdisciplinary research centre established in partnership with the world-class Economics Department at Essex. The Centre aims to conduct and publish world-leading research in macro and financial econometrics.
The Centres run regular seminars that are open to all postgraduate students and which offer an opportunity for you to hear the very latest research and developments in the finance sector.
Specialist facilities
MSc Finance and Data Analytics is based at our
Colchester Campus
.
You'll be studying at
Essex Business School
, home to the first zero carbon business school in the UK – demonstrating our sustainable approach to business first-hand. Set around a lush winter garden, with shared spaces to encourage collaborative working, you'll find a wealth of inspiring teaching and study zones:
a virtual
trading floor
with Bloomberg Financial Market Labs, where you'll gain hands-on experience and learn how to model financial data in a practical setting
learn in modern lecture theatres with ‘listen again' recording to aid your study
dynamic blended learning provision for uninterrupted study and engaging online lectures with
virtual guest speakers
utilise study booths in our winter garden and versatile break out areas for group working throughout the building
study skills support
provided by the Essex Business School Learning Team
networking opportunities with visiting businesses and careers events
Bonds café and adjacent foyer to enjoy on-site fresh food and drink
You'll also benefit from fantastic University
facilities
located close by, including our state-of-the-art Silberrad Student Centre, complete with an open-access 24-hour Learning Hub and a cutting-edge media centre. You benefit from access to a wide range of specialised banking and finance databases, textbooks and e-books and can book appointments with our subject librarian.
Essex Business School students also have access to quantitative analysis software, such as MatLab, Stata and Eviews which can be accessed remotely and from all university computer labs.
Our building is located on the
Knowledge Gateway
, home to some of the region's most exciting enterprises in the science, technology and creative sectors. The Knowledge Gateway provides potential networking and career opportunities for students directly on campus.
Your future
MSc Finance and Data Analytics provides you with the foundations for a rewarding career in finance and business analytics, equipping you with the skills to lead at a global level.
Our
graduates
can analyse complex data and use this to make effective business decisions. Many work for global employers and dynamic SMEs in financial analysis, management, public administration and accountancy, such as:
KPMG
Grant Thornton LLP
Inter-American Development Bank
European Central Bank
HP, hardware company
Groupon, a global e-commerce marketplace
Capital Markets Intelligence, a financial publisher
Credit Data Research, a business funder
Our
Student Support team
work closely with the University's
Employability and Careers
service to help you with careers information and advice and CV support. They will help you find work experience, internships, placements and voluntary opportunities and provide access to employer talks on campus. We also work closely with the Essex Startups team to support our budding entrepreneurs get their business ideas off the ground.
“I decided to study at Essex Business School because of the data analytics part of the course. I wanted to learn how to invest and the best way to price assets, but I also wanted to learn ways of harnessing modern big data in finance and using it to make it work for me. Big data is the new kid on the block and MSc Finance and Data Analytics taught me ways of befriending and handling this kid. Not only did we learn theory, but we also got the chance to get into a lab and learn everything first-hand. The Bloomberg suite located in the business school gave me first-hand experience of how trading in the real world looks and we also learnt different programming languages that taught us how to handle finance data and get information out of it. I still make use of everything I learnt whilst at Essex even today.”
Laone Maphane, MSc Finance and Data Analytics
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
A 2:2 degree, or international equivalent, in one of the following subjects (with no module requirements):
Computer Science
Economics
Engineering
Finance
Mathematics
Natural Science
Data Analysis
Statistics
We will also consider applicants with any other 2:2 degree, or international equivalent, with a pass in any ONE of the following modules:
Banking (Financial Intermediaries, Financial Markets)
Economics (e.g. Macroeconomics, Microeconomics)
Finance and/or Investments (e.g. Asset Pricing, Behavioural Finance, Corporate Finance, Derivatives, Options and Futures, Portfolio Analysis, Risk Management, Securities)
Quantitative methods (e.g. Data Analytics, Econometrics, Financial Modelling, Statistics)
We will also consider applicants who hold a CFA Institute Programme Level One, Two or Three (pass or above).
Applicants from any other background will be considered on a case by case basis, dependent on the content of their undergraduate degree and
at least one year
of relevant work experience in the field of economics, finance, banking, investment, financial engineering, risk management entrepreneurship, accounting or quantitative analysis (please include your CV with your application).
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If English is not your first language, we require IELTS 6.5 overall with a minimum component score of 5.5.
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Additional Notes
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to successfully complete a course at the University of Essex. Where appropriate, we may ask for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
Structure
Course structure
We offer a flexible course structure with a mixture of core/compulsory modules, and optional modules chosen from lists. Please be aware that we are planning changes to our first year to make it more relevant to your chosen course.
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The following modules are based on the current course structure and may change in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Dissertation
(40 CREDITS)
Your dissertation is the culmination of your Masters programme, where you apply the knowledge gained on your course to produce a 10,000 word independent piece of work. You generate an original idea, analyse literature and current knowledge and produce a coherent argument that shows your ability to relate theory to practice. Your dissertation will help you develop vital skills for the workplace, as well as the ability to analyse real problems through an academic lens. You're assigned a supervisor for the duration of your project.
View Dissertation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Research Methods in Finance
(20 CREDITS)
This module equips you with the econometric tools and necessary experience to conduct empirical research in finance. You review statistical and basic econometric models and learn to apply econometric techniques in finance by considering topics such as (G)ARCH models, unit roots and cointegration.
View Research Methods in Finance on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Big Data in Finance
(20 CREDITS)
Big data - where datasets are so large they cannot be processed using traditional techniques – is useful to financial organisations. This module explores how to analyse big data and covers areas such as predictive analytics, risk modelling and corporate finance. You also learn about the application of data analytics in high frequency finance, fraud and personal finance.
View Big Data in Finance on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Portfolio Management
(20 CREDITS)
Understand the process of portfolio management. You cover the main concepts such as efficient diversification, managing risk exposures, and the valuation of financial assets that are at the core of managing investment portfolios, and pay special attention to the practicalities of the implementation of these concepts.
View Portfolio Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Financial Time Series: Methods and Applications
(20 CREDITS)
This course will provide you with a thorough grounding in both the theory and practice of time series econometrics with applications to topics relevant to finance. This knowledge, along with training in industry standard computing software, will be highly beneficial to students undertaking further study or wishing to work in the financial sector.
View Financial Time Series: Methods and Applications on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Data Analysis: Cross Sectional, Panel and Qualitative Data Methods
(20 CREDITS)
This module provides you with an understanding of non-time-series data analytic approaches in finance. It covers methods for cross-sectional, panel and qualitative analysis and their applications whereby all topics are illustrated with relevant examples. 

Cross-sectional data are organised over individual groups (eg households, firms or countries) and have no time dimension. They may include discontinuous data (eg binary), qualitative or categorical data and are essentially non-numerical. Examples include: survey responses, textual analysis of social media or interviews. Panel data or longitudinal data are multi-dimensional data streams involving measurements over time. As such, panel data consists of researcher's observations of numerous phenomena that were collected over several time periods for the same group of units or entities. For example, a panel data set may be one that follows a given sample of individuals over time and records observations or information on each individual in the sample. The nature and advantages of panel data has led to numerous applications in finance and economics research.
View Data Analysis: Cross Sectional, Panel and Qualitative Data Methods on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: OPTIONAL
Option(s) from list
(40 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 08: COMPULSORY
Postgraduate Mathematics Preparation
(0 CREDITS)
This module covers topics in mathematics that are required in Masters-level finance courses at the University of Essex. You focus on the basics of linear algebra, differential calculus including optimisation and dynamics.
View Postgraduate Mathematics Preparation on our Module Directory
Teaching
Tailor the content of your course to more closely fit your interests and aspirations
Optional modules will enable you to gain in-depth specialisation and understanding across several banking and finance topics
Courses focus on practical applications and links with industry
Our postgraduate students can attend conferences and seminars on campus and beyond
Assessment
Regular assessment is by coursework, presentations, case studies, group work, tests and examinations
Dissertation
You will undertake an individually supervised research project that involves the in-depth study of a specific finance problem or issue
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£15,000
International fee
£23,500
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We hold
Open Days
for all our applicants throughout the year. Our Colchester Campus events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex, and give you the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
If the dates of our organised events aren’t suitable for you, feel free to get in touch by emailing
tours@essex.ac.uk
and we’ll arrange an individual campus tour for you.
Applying
You can
apply for this postgraduate course online
. Before you apply, please check our information about
necessary documents
that we'll ask you to provide as part of your application.
We aim to respond to applications within two weeks. If we are able to offer you a place, you will be contacted via email.
For information on our deadline to apply for this course, please see our ‘
how to apply
' information.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree
virtual tour
allows you to explore the Colchester Campus from the comfort of your home. Check out our accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Open Days
Come see for yourself
Read all about it
Get a prospectus
Study at Essex
Find a course
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website