Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG01630%2F1%2FMSc-Cyber-Security&auth=VRnIYYRYLqR3BeEhLvcaQg&profile=_default&rank=198&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
MSc Cyber Security
Postgraduate Course
MSc Cyber Security
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Cyber Security
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (School of)
Our MSc Cyber Security course provides you with the essential skills to support cyber security within the private and public sector, with a strong focus on security by design, digital identity, digital forensics and network security. If you’re a computing graduate and are pursuing a career as a cyber security professional - or in other areas that need a systematic and deep understanding of the subject - or you want to carry out further research in the subject, this is the Masters degree for you.
You will develop your ability to critically evaluate the theories, techniques and systems used in your chosen area of specialisation. You will develop research and problem-solving techniques, and undertake research through practical project experience.
On this course, you will gain a practical, real-world embedding of current cyber security-related technologies to allow you the flexibility to deploy them imaginatively within a fast-developing threat-laden world. Alongside a general coverage, you will cast a sharp eye on:
security by design as an underlying ethos of software design
a grounding in computer security and cryptography
an understanding of network security
the technical side of online digital identity, authentication and biometrics
a detailed understanding of digital forensics
the influence of AI on cyber security
the ability to engineer practical solutions to cyber security problems, both individually and in groups
You will be part of our
School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering
: a community of scholars leading the way in technological research and development. Today's computer scientists are creative people who are focused and committed, yet restless and experimental. Our work is driven by creativity and imagination as well as technical excellence. That's why we are ranked 6th in the UK for research power in computer science (Times Higher Education research power measure, Research Excellence Framework 2021).
This course is available on a full-time (12 months) basis, starting in October.
Professional accreditation
This course is provisionally certified by the National Cyber Security Centre.
Why we're great.
Complete a course provisionally certified by the National Cyber Security Centre.
Gain a strong understanding of current cyber security-related technologies and how to deploy them within a threat-laden world.
Become familiar with game-changing industry security and ensure career resilience in a fast-changing profession.
Our expert staff
Specialist staff researching computer networks include Prof Gareth Howells, Prof Haris Mouratidis, Prof. Martin Reed and Prof Klaus McDonald-Maier.
More broadly, our research covers a wide range of theoretical and practical cyber security topics from digital security by design to the investigation of techniques for deriving digital identity of physical circuits from their inherent characteristics to cyber physical and embedded systems. The work has led to the creation of several spin-out companies currently commercialising our research.
Our impressive external research funding stands at over £4 million and we participate in a number of EU initiatives and undertake projects under contract to many outside bodies, including government and industrial organisations.
Specialist facilities
We are one of the largest and best resourced computer science and electronic engineering schools in the UK. Our work is supported by extensive networked computer facilities and software aids, together with a wide range of test and instrumentation equipment.
We have
six laboratories
that are exclusively for computer science and electronic engineering students. Three are open 24/7, and you have free access to the labs outside of scheduled practical classes.
All computers are dual boot Windows 10 and Linux. Apple Mac Computers are dual boot MacOS and Windows 10.
Cyber security-related software includes Autopsy/Cyber Triage, Wireshark: Metasploit Framework: Nmap (Network Mapper), Auth0, Neurotechnology, BioID, and picoCTF.
You will also have access to standard facilities such as Python, Java, Prolog, C++, Perl, Mysql, Matlab, DB2, Microsoft Office, Visual Studio.
We also have specialist dedicated hardware “sandbox” facilities isolated from the existing network for secure cyber security experimentation.
Your future
Our goal is to provide you with postgraduate training in cyber security to ensure you leave us with a secure understanding of the principles and practice of cyber security and the services it supports.
Graduates with a Masters in cyber security are excellently equipped to work in a range of careers, such as:
Software development firms: Companies like Microsoft, Google, and Apple employ cyber security experts to safeguard their software, products, and cloud services.
Cyber security firms: Specialised firms such as Palo Alto Networks, FireEye, and CrowdStrike focus entirely on cyber security solutions and often hire graduates for roles in penetration testing, security architecture, and incident response.
Banks and investment firms: Banks like JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs, and Citibank have dedicated cyber security teams to protect sensitive financial data, payment systems, and customer accounts.
Insurance companies: Cyber insurance is growing, and companies in this sector need cyber security experts to assess risk and prevent breaches.
Government agencies
Healthcare organisations
Consulting firms
Defence contractors
We also work with the University's
Employability and Careers Centre
to help you find out about further work experience, internships, placements, and voluntary opportunities.
Read more about
computer science and electronic engineering career destinations.
You would also be able to progress to a postgraduate research degree (such as a PhD) with us in
computer science and electronic engineering
and
computational finance
.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
A 2:2 degree in one of the following subjects (with no module requirements):
Computer Engineering
Computer Games
Computer Networks
Computer Science
Computing
Mathematics
Physics
Software Engineering
We will consider applicants with any other 2:2 degree or above which includes:
At least one Maths module, such as:
Algebra
Calculus
Differential Equations
Mathematics
Probability
Statistics
Stochastic Processes
AND
At least one Programming module from the following list:
C, C#
or
C++
Introduction to Programming
or
Advanced Programming
Java
MATLAB
Object Oriented Programming (OOP)
Programming Languages
Python
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum component score of 5.5
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Additional Notes
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to successfully complete a course at the University of Essex. Where appropriate, we may ask for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
Structure
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
COMPONENT 01: CORE
MSc Project and Dissertation
(60 CREDITS)
What fascinates you? Apply your learning in computer science or engineering to solve a problem. Design, implement and evaluate a solution, producing a dissertation on your investigation and giving an oral presentation of your work. Test your knowledge, while gaining practical experience and building your project management skills.
View MSc Project and Dissertation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Professional Practice and Research Methodology
(15 CREDITS)
This module aims to prepare students for conducting an independent research project leading to a dissertation and to provide them with an appreciation of research and business skills related to their professional career. As a precursor to their project students, individually select an area of Computer Science, or Electronic Engineering, or Computational Finance and perform the necessary background research to define a topic and prepare a project proposal under the  guidance of a supervisor. The module guides them by a) introducing common research methods b) creating an understanding of basic statistics for describing and making conclusions from data c) helping to write a strong proposal including learning how to perform literature search and evaluation and d) giving an in-depth view into the business enterprise, financial and management accounting and investment appraisal.
View Professional Practice and Research Methodology on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Group Project
(15 CREDITS)
Teamwork skills are essential for employability.  The aim of this module is to provide students with the opportunity to apply their specialised knowledge to a realistic problem and gain practical experience of the processes involved in the team-based production of software. Wherever possible, teams are organised on the basis of shared interest, and the problem is designed to exercise their understanding of their area of specialised study. Starting from an outline description of a realistic problem, each team is required to develop a fully implemented software solution using appropriate engineering and project management techniques.
View Group Project on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Computer Security
(15 CREDITS)
This course gives an introduction to computer security and cryptography, and then goes on to consider security as it relates to a single, network connected, computer. Introductory material is independent of any operating system but the consideration of tools will focus on those available for Linux, partly because its open-source nature facilitates this and partly because it is widely used on server systems. The introduction to cryptography will be used to consider its use in encryption and authentication.
View Computer Security on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Network Security
(15 CREDITS)
This module considers the application of security to networked computers and systems. It will cover how to secure a network by applying methods to detect, mitigate and/or stop attacks. Based on the assumption that public networks will always be open to compromise, this course introduces techniques to secure transmitted data, including the management of encryption systems and communication.
View Network Security on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Digital Identity and Biometrics
(15 CREDITS)
View Digital Identity and Biometrics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: COMPULSORY
Computer Forensics
(15 CREDITS)
View Computer Forensics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 08: COMPULSORY
Advanced Topics in Cyber Security
(15 CREDITS)
View Advanced Topics in Cyber Security on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 09: COMPULSORY
Secure Software Systems Engineering
(15 CREDITS)
View Secure Software Systems Engineering on our Module Directory
Teaching
Our School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering courses provide a thorough and up-to-date knowledge of the theory, methods and applications of computer science.
Whether you want to specialise or gain a broad understanding of the subject, your course will be structured with both core components and optional modules.
As a postgraduate student, we will regularly encourage you to attend conferences and seminars, as well as engage with the wider research community.
Assessment
On this course, you will be assessed on the results of your written examinations, together with continual assessments of your practical work and coursework.
Dissertation
To round off your degree, you will focus in-depth on a topic of your choice via a research project under the close supervision of our expert faculty staff.
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£12,125
International fee
£23,500
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We hold
Open Days
for all our applicants throughout the year. Our Colchester Campus events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex, and give you the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
If the dates of our organised events aren’t suitable for you, feel free to get in touch by emailing
tours@essex.ac.uk
and we’ll arrange an individual campus tour for you.
Applying
You can
apply for this postgraduate course online
. Before you apply, please check our information about
necessary documents
that we'll ask you to provide as part of your application.
We aim to respond to applications within two weeks. If we are able to offer you a place, you will be contacted via email.
For information on our deadline to apply for this course, please see our ‘
how to apply
' information.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree
virtual tour
allows you to explore the Colchester Campus from the comfort of your home. Check out our accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Life at Essex
What it's like to live at Essex
Accommodation
Find your new home
Open Days
Come see for yourself
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website