Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG00639%2F1%2FMSc-International-Marketing-and-Business-Intelligence&auth=eAPJk8WbBu%2BcdtHC1cxt7A&profile=_default&rank=352&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
MSc International Marketing and Business Intelligence
Postgraduate Course
MSc International Marketing and Business Intelligence
Start date
January 2025
October 2025
January 2026
Study mode
Full Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
International Marketing and Business Intelligence
Start date:
January 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year
Location:
Southend Campus
Based in:
Essex Business School
Marketing in an international business environment requires a dual set of skills in strategic marketing and agile business management. In order to do business across borders you must first learn to appreciate cross-cultural challenges in your marketing approach.
Our MSc International Marketing and Business Intelligence explores the theoretical and practical approaches to marketing planning, strategy, communications and customer-centred business. You do not need to have previously studied marketing to undertake this course.
You examine how these topics apply to public and private organisations in varying stages of formation, growth or change management, in different international and cultural environments. We expose you to cutting-edge marketing techniques, encourage your creativity and develop your critical thinking, analytical, strategic and leadership skills.
Topics include:
the marketing communications mix, including: advertising; public relations; personal selling; sales promotion and direct marketing
marketing strategies, including product, pricing, promotion and distribution strategies
new product development
supply chain management and operations
theories and practices of entrepreneurship
This course is delivered by
Essex Business School
at our
Southend Campus
. Students and staff come to us from all over the world, creating a classroom experience rich in diversity and working together to build a global understanding. Essex is also a place with entrepreneurial spirit; we have more start-up businesses than any other county in the UK. Together this entrepreneurial spirit and global community make for the perfect place to study business and international marketing.
Your course benefits from current research by the
Strategy, Operations and Entrepreneurship
group which is based at our Southend Campus and focuses on answering the question: “How can organisations and entrepreneurs increase their benefits to society and minimise their environmental impact?” A Masters from Essex Business School can give you a solid foundation on which to build your international marketing and business career.
You can study this course starting in either October or January. The January entry point is only offered on a full-time basis and cannot be studied part-time.
Professional accreditation
Accredited by The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) for the purpose of gaining CIM qualifications through the Graduate Gateway.
Why we're great.
This course is accredited by The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) meaning you can earn exemptions towards your professional graduate qualifications.
You can choose to complete an international marketing plan instead of a dissertation.
This course is perfect if you do not have a first degree in business or marketing but want to start your own business.
Our expert staff
Based in Southend-on-Sea, members of the Strategy, Operations and Entrepreneurship Group have well-established reputations for research in:
entrepreneurship and innovation, with a special focus on under-represented groups
global sustainable supply chains
international business, particularly with reference to emerging markets
research and development management
data analytics
corporate social responsibility activities
During your course, you'll have the opportunity to learn from
Professor Suma Athreye
, Professor of Technology Strategy at Essex Business School.
Professor Athreye's research explores the economics and management of intellectual property, as well as technology management, licensing and co-operation. She has recently been working on a project investigating patent use and the barriers to patent use in the UK, with a particular focus on small firms and universities. Suma sits on the research advisory board of the UK intellectual Property Office.
Academic members of staff from our Strategy, Operations and Entrepreneurship Group are supported in their research activities by our flourishing
Centre for Research on Entrepreneurship, Innovation, Management and Internationalisation (REIMI)
.
The Centre is well known for international business research on emerging-market multinational enterprises (MNEs); technology management; novel research in migrant entrepreneurship and firm internationalisation.
Specialist facilities
MSc International Marketing and Business Intelligence is taught at our
Southend Campus
, just 40 minutes from London and in the heart of the Thames Gateway - one of the Government's priority areas for economic growth, it is a fitting location for entrepreneurial study.
Essex has the highest number of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the UK, meaning you are ideally located for networking, launching a business or gaining inspiration for both your studies and future career.
Choose our Southend Campus, and you'll have access to a superb learning environment with state-of-the-art
facilities
, including:
our award-winning The Forum building, with an extensive public and academic library and café
24-hour learning hub, with group-study spaces, PC access and places for quiet study
Essex Business School Student Services team to support your time at EBS
masters study suite for EBS postgraduate students
modern lecture theatres and seminar rooms
careers
support, events and initiatives
study skills support
provided by the Essex Business School Learning Team
our cosy SU Lounge, with pool tables and large-screen TV for socialising and relaxation
Southend-on-Sea combines the charms of a traditional seaside resort with the attractions of a vibrant, modern town and our campus sits right at the centre.  With seven miles of coastline, a thriving arts and cultural scene and a wide variety of restaurants and nightlife all on your doorstep, it's the perfect place to live and study. Our town centre location has excellent transport links and London Southend Airport is just five minutes away by train, offering fights to over 50 destinations across Europe.
Your future
A Master's degree in International Marketing and Business Intelligence will provide you with a solid foundation on which to build your international marketing career or start your own entrepreneurial venture. You will gain a clear grasp of international marketing strategy and how innovative approaches to new business creation can be applied across international borders - opening the door to global opportunities.
Modern marketers must be creative and ethical. They must innovate and consider the impact of marketing on wider society. Our curriculum aims to develop your creativity and critical thinking. Core modules such as International Marketing Strategy and Planning and Theories and Practice of Entrepreneurship will equip you with an understanding of the strategic and functional aspects of international marketing, the challenges international marketers face and the range of economic, sociological, psychological and managerial theories of enterprise creation and development.
Many of our graduates go on to set up their own businesses or manage marketing activities in organisations of all sizes. Recent graduate destinations include high profile organisations and SMEs such as:
KPMG
HP
Groupon
Wefarm, the world's largest platform for small-scale farmers
fast-growing digital agency, Footprint Digital
award-winning marketing agency, Coast Digital
Read our
graduate profiles
to find out the types of organisations our Masters students go on to work for.
Our
Student Support team
work closely with the University's
Employability and Careers
service to help you with careers information and advice and CV support. They will help you find work experience, internships, placements and voluntary opportunities and provide access to employer talks on campus. We also work closely with the Essex Startups team to support our budding entrepreneurs get their business ideas off the ground.
"My Masters ended up being very relevant to the field I now work in. After completing my degree at Essex I moved back to Pakistan, my home country. Here I joined a digital marketing agency as a Business Development Manager and got promoted to Operations Manager and Social Media Lead. I have been able to use my degree to search for new strategies and the quality of my work has enhanced my position in the company."
Momina Malik
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
A 2:2 degree or international equivalent, in any discipline.
We will also consider applicants who hold a professional qualification such as a CIM, CIPD or CMI
and
two years' relevant Professional or Managerial experience.
You may also be considered with a lower class degree, where you have
at least three year’s
relevant work experience (please provide your CV in your application).
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If English is not your first language, we require IELTS 6.5 overall with a minimum score of  5.5 in all components.
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English
pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Additional Notes
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to
successfully complete a course at the University of Essex. Where appropriate, we may ask
for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
Structure
Course structure
We offer a flexible course structure with a mixture of core/compulsory modules, and optional modules chosen from lists. Please be aware that we are planning changes to our first year to make it more relevant to your chosen course.
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The following modules are based on the current course structure and may change in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, such as COVID-19, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
Final Year
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Business Analytics for Managers and Entrepreneurs
(15 CREDITS)
Data analytics presents a massive opportunity for business leaders, managers and entrepreneurs alike in modern globalised economies. You explore how crucial data analytics is in today's business world, and consider real-world examples where businesses have harnessed this power to solve critical problems. You learn a wide variety of data mining, visual and analytical techniques which can be applied to data generated from different markets and businesses.
View Business Analytics for Managers and Entrepreneurs on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Strategic Management
(15 CREDITS)
This module explores how to develop profitable business strategies. You learn how to analyse a firm’s external environment, including examining the economy and its competitors, assess its internal resources and set objectives. You examine the differences between corporate, competitive and functional business strategies and develop your decision making and analytical skills. By the end of the module, you understand how a manger can shape a firm’s direction to meet its goals and stakeholder expectations.
View Strategic Management on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Research Methods
(15 CREDITS)
Gain the key skills and competencies to carry out management research or prepare a comprehensive business plan, suitable for the completion of a Masters level programme. You address the philosophical issues underlying management research, and discover how to select methods and judge the quality and value of research outcomes.
View Research Methods on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
International Marketing Strategy and Planning
(15 CREDITS)
Develop your critical understanding of the strategic and functional aspects of international marketing activities of firms of varying sizes and industries. You explore the roles of external and internal environments against key international marketing decisions such as modes of foreign market entry and market selection, or the design and implementation of marketing mix approaches at the international level.
View International Marketing Strategy and Planning on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: OPTIONAL
Option(s) from list
(15 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 06: CORE WITH OPTIONS
BE948-7-SL or BE997-7-SL
(0 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 01: CORE WITH OPTIONS
BE984-7-AU or BE957-7-AU
(60 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Data-Driven Decision Making
(15 CREDITS)
In this module, you develop the quantitative skills required to model and solve managerial challenges. You learn how to use mathematical programming methods and specialised software to represent and solve decision making problems. We equip you with a deep understanding of key optimisation methods so you can identify the most relevant approach to solve particular issues.
View Data-Driven Decision Making on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Digital Marketing and Social Media
(15 CREDITS)
This module focuses on the impact of 'digital' on the world of Marketing. You explore the changing nature of business and consumer behaviour, communication, and market research. You will investigate current practical and theoretical issues within Digital Marketing and Social Media.

You will study the academic field concerned with marketing and digital media and the challenges and opportunities it affords to marketers, consumers, organisations and society at large. Marketing practices have dramatically changed with the rise of social media, mobile apps and new technological developments in devices, platforms, and applications. 

We will explore together the rapid evolution of the digital environment presents new opportunities and challenges for marketers.
View Digital Marketing and Social Media on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: OPTIONAL
Option(s) from list
(15 CREDITS)
Teaching
We combine theory with practical exercises to hone your transferable employability skills:
shape your own degree by choosing from a selection of optional modules, including the chance to create your own international marketing plan
benefit from a learning experience centred on problem-solving
take part in the Essex Business School open seminar series and hear from world-respected lecturers
research is at the heart of our curriculum; you explore real-world marketing and entrepreneurial challenges
Assessment
Regular assessment is by coursework, presentations, case studies, group work, tests, simulation game assignments and examinations
Dissertation
You submit a 15,000 word dissertation or an international marketing plan
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£14,300
International fee
£22,400
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We hold
Open Days
for all our applicants throughout the year. Our Southend Campus events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex, and give you the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
If the dates of our organised events aren’t suitable for you, feel free to get in touch by emailing
southend@essex.ac.uk
and we’ll arrange an individual campus tour for you.
Applying
You can
apply for this postgraduate course online
. Before you apply, please check our information about
necessary documents
that we'll ask you to provide as part of your application.
We aim to respond to applications within two weeks. If we are able to offer you a place, you will be contacted via email.
For information on our deadline to apply for this course, please see our ‘
how to apply
' information.
Visit Southend Campus
Want to live in a central city location, with state-of-the-art facilities at your finger tips? Southend is the perfect environment for living and learning in a close-knit international community.
If you're joining our School of Health and Social Care, East 15 Acting School, or Essex Business School, you may well be studying at our Southend Campus.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Check out
our website
to find out more information about our Southend Campus, watch videos and view our campuses.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Open Days
Come see for yourself
Read all about it
Get a prospectus
Study at Essex
Find a course
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website