Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG01565%2F2%2FPostgraduate-Certificate-Specialist-Adult-Mental-Health-Mental-Health-and-Wellbeing-Practitioner&auth=aHm1ArH7GXWyzmQPm0%2BW%2BA&profile=_default&rank=419&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
Postgraduate Certificate Specialist Adult Mental Health (Mental Health and Wellbeing Practitioner)
Postgraduate Course
Postgraduate Certificate Specialist Adult Mental Health
(Mental Health and Wellbeing Practitioner)
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Specialist Adult Mental Health (Mental Health and Wellbeing Practitioner)
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
1 year
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Health and Social Care (School of)
The Specialist Adult Mental Health course aims to support and develop trainee Mental Health Wellbeing Practitioners (MHWPs) in their knowledge and understanding of the complexities of severe mental health problems.
You will learn how to deliver a range of wellbeing-focused, psychologically informed, interventions and coordinate care plans for adults. The course will generate understanding of the purpose of collaborative care planning, and how to work alongside other members of the multi-disciplinary team, as well as families.
Specialists in the School of Health and Social Care will facilitate your understanding of mental health theory and practice and guide you to develop a critical knowledge of the theoretical and research literature relating to wellbeing interventions. You will study adaptable clinical management in our mock wards, and hone your collaboration and decision-making competencies in groups simulating clinical cases.
To practice working as a safe practitioner within a community setting, you will have direct contact with patients and other practitioners on placement. As a trainee MHWP you will learn about how to support personal recovery and promote hope and connectedness and will gain a greater understanding of issues of culture and diversity within mental health.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
Entry to the programme is subject to successful interview.
Employment as a Trainee Mental Health Wellbeing Practitioner is a pre-requisite for applying for the programme. Alternatively, transferrable experience within the mental health field or other as appropriate will be considered.
Applicants must have achieved a minimum of NQF Level Six (6) or have proof of degree level study.
International & EU entry requirements
This course is not available to EU and International applicants.
English language requirements
English language requirements for applicants whose first language is not English: IELTS with an overall score of 7.0, and minimum component scores of 6.5.
Other English language qualifications may be acceptable so please contact us for further details. If we accept the English component of an international qualification then it will be included in the information given about the academic levels listed above.
Please note that date restrictions may apply to some English language qualifications.
Structure
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
COMPONENT 01: CORE
Engagement and assessment with people with severe mental health problems
(20 CREDITS)
In this module, we will equip you to deliver wellbeing-focused psychologically-informed interventions that support connectedness, hope, identity, meaning and empowerment (CHIME). 

You will develop the knowledge, critical awareness of the subject, and the skills to deliver a person-centred, collaborative assessment that engages patients and those that support them.
View Engagement and assessment with people with severe mental health problems on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: CORE
Care Planning in Partnership
(20 CREDITS)
During this module you will develop the knowledge and critical awareness of the subject as well as the skills to work collaboratively with service users and those that support them in using a range of resources to develop a care plan that supports personal recovery.

We will support you to grow your skills to use supervision effectively and look after your own well-being.
View Care Planning in Partnership on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: CORE
Wellbeing-focused Psychologically-informed Interventions for Severe Mental Health Problems
(20 CREDITS)
During this module, you will develop the knowledge and critical awareness of a range of evidence-based interventions used in goal-focused treatment.  You'll build on the skills gained in previous modules to ensure collaborative practice and learn how routine patient-reported outcome measures support clinical decision making and evaluate progress.
View Wellbeing-focused Psychologically-informed Interventions for Severe Mental Health Problems on our Module Directory
Teaching
Typically students can expect to have a full day at University and a 'practice-based learning day' completing homework tasks, per week. The rest of week is spent working in service.
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£8,000
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We hold
Open Days
for all our applicants throughout the year. Our Colchester Campus events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex, and give you the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
If the dates of our organised events aren’t suitable for you, feel free to get in touch by emailing
tours@essex.ac.uk
and we’ll arrange an individual campus tour for you.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree
virtual tour
allows you to explore the Colchester Campus from the comfort of your home. Check out our accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Related courses
Graduate Certificate Specialist Adult Mental Health (Mental Health and Wellbeing Practitioner)
Study mode:
Full-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Life at Essex
What it's like to live at Essex
Accommodation
Find your new home
Open Days
Come see for yourself
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website