Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG00808%2F2%2FPostgraduate-Diploma-Optimisation-and-Data-Analytics&auth=pxGCFlBs56tUkS%2FsHefscA&profile=_default&rank=278&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
Postgraduate Diploma Optimisation and Data Analytics
Postgraduate Course
Postgraduate Diploma Optimisation and Data Analytics
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Optimisation and Data Analytics
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
9 months
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science (School of)
Our Postgraduate Diploma Optimisation and Data Analytics is aimed at those with a first degree in which the major subject was mathematics, and we expect you to have prior knowledge of statistics – for example significance testing or basic statistical distributions – and operational research such as linear programming.
Postgraduate Diplomas last for six to nine months (full-time) and include the modules and assessed work of a Masters, without a dissertation. This allows you to proceed to a Masters in mathematics if your undergraduate degree was in a different subject.
Businesses, organisations, and individuals all strive to work as effectively as possible. Operational research uses advanced statistical and analytical methods to help improve the complex decision-making processes to deliver a product or service. Working in this field, you might be identifying future needs for a business, evaluating the time-life value of a customer, or carrying out computer simulations for airlines.
You specialise in areas including:
Continuous and discrete optimisation
Time series econometrics
Heuristic computation
Experimental design
Machine learning
Linear models
Our interdisciplinary research recognises that mathematics, including what can be very abstract mathematics, is an essential part of research in many other disciplines.
Our
School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science
has an international reputation in many areas including semi-group theory, optimisation, probability, applied statistics, bioinformatics and mathematical biology.
We are genuinely innovative and student-focused. Our research groups are working on a broad range of collaborative areas tackling real-world issues. Here are a few examples:
Our data scientists carefully consider how not to lie, and how not to get lied to with data. Interpreting data correctly is especially important because much of our data science research is applied directly or indirectly to social policies, including health, care and education.
We do practical research with financial data (for example, assessing the risk of collapse of the UK's banking system) as well as theoretical research in financial instruments such as insurance policies or asset portfolios.
We also research how physical processes develop in time and space. Applications of this range from modelling epilepsy to modelling electronic cables.
Our optimisation experts work out how to do the same job with less resource, or how to do more with the same resource.
Our pure maths group are currently working on two new funded projects entitled ‘Machine learning for recognising tangled 3D objects' and ‘Searching for gems in the landscape of cyclically presented groups'.
We also do research into mathematical education and use exciting technologies such as electroencephalography or eye tracking to measure exactly what a learner is feeling. Our research aims to encourage the implementation of ‘the four Cs' of modern education, which are critical thinking, communication, collaboration, and creativity.
Why we're great.
This course will appeal to you if your first degree included mathematics as the major subject, and you have prior knowledge of statistics.
You specialise in areas including continuous and discrete optimisation, time series econometrics, and experimental design.
We have an international reputation for our work on optimisation, probability and applied statistics.
Our expert staff
Our School is committed to providing you with the academic support you need to succeed. Our flexible policy means some staff are always available, whilst others maintain regular drop-in times. Staff are always happy to arrange appointments for longer discussions, and no issue is too big or too small.
Our staff have published several well-regarded text books and are world leaders in their individual specialisms, with their papers appearing in learned journals like
Communications in Algebra, Studia Logica, International Journal of Algebra and Computation, SIAM Journal in Optimization, IEEE Evolutionary Computation, Computers and Operations Research, Ecology, Journal of Mathematical Biology
, and
Journal of Statistical Applications in Genetics and Molecular Biology.
Specialist facilities
Unique to Essex is our renowned
Maths Support Centre
, which offers help to students, staff and local businesses on a range of mathematical problems. Throughout term-time, we can chat through mathematical problems either on a one-to-one or small group basis
We have our own computer labs for the exclusive use of students in the School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science – in addition to your core maths modules, you gain computing knowledge of software including Matlab and Maple
We host events and seminars throughout the year
Our students run a lively Mathematics Society, an active and social group where you can explore your interest in your subject with other students
Your future
Our Postgraduate Diploma Optimisation and Data Analytics will equip you with employability skills like problem solving, analytical reasoning, data analysis, and mathematical modelling, as well as training you in independent work, presentation and writing skills.
Your exposure to current active research areas, such as decomposition algorithms, prepares you for further study at doctoral level. Graduates of this course now hold key positions in government, business and academia, and work for global companies such as Ocado Technology and Dunnhumby, as well as for HM Revenue & Customs, as data and business intelligence analysts.
We also offer supervision for PhD, MPhil and MSc by Dissertation. We have an international reputation in many areas such as semi-group theory, optimisation, probability, applied statistics, bioinformatics and mathematical biology, and our staff are strongly committed to research and to the promotion of graduate activities.
We additionally work with our
Employability and Careers Centre
to help you find out about further work experience, internships, placements, and voluntary opportunities.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
A 2:2 degree or international equivalent in one of the following subjects:
Applied Mathematics
Biostatistics
Computer Science
Economic Statistics
Economics
Mathematics
Operational Research
Pure Mathematics
Statistics
OR
Any other 2:2 degree in any subject which includes
three modules
from the below lists:
One module, from:
Advanced Maths (I/II/III)
Calculus (I/II/III) - AKA Mathematical Analysis
Engineering Maths (I/II/III)
Maths (I/II/III)
And
One module, from:
Advanced Maths (I/II/III)
Engineering Maths (I/II/III)
Maths (I/II/III)
Statistics or Probability
And
One additional relevant module, from:
Advanced Maths (I/II/III)
Algebra
Analysis
Complex Numbers
Differential Equations
Engineering Maths (I/II/III)
Maths (I/II/III)
Numerical Methods
Optimisation (Linear Programming)
Programming Language (R or MATLAB or Python)
Regression
Another module in Probability or Statistics
Stochastic Process
Applicants with a degree below 2:2 or equivalent will be considered dependent on any relevant professional or voluntary experience and previous modules studied.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If English is not your first language, we require IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum
component score of 5.5 in all components.
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English
pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Additional Notes
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to successfully complete a course at the University of Essex. Where appropriate, we may ask for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
Structure
Course structure
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The following modules are based on the current course structure and may change in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Nonlinear Programming
(15 CREDITS)
How do you apply an algorithm or numerical method to a problem? What are the advantages? And the limitations? Understand the theory and application of nonlinear programming. Learn the principles of good modelling and know how to design algorithms and numerical methods. Critically assess issues regarding computational algorithms.
View Nonlinear Programming on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Combinatorial Optimisation
(15 CREDITS)
In this module you will learn techniques underpinning algorithms for studying integer-valued systems, and apply these algorithms to solve integer and mixed integer problems with cutting-plane algorithms.
View Combinatorial Optimisation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Introduction to Programming in Python
(15 CREDITS)
The aim of this module is to provide an introduction to computer programming for students with little or no previous experience.  The Python language is used in the Linux environment, and students are given a comprehensive introduction to both during the module.  The emphasis is on developing the practical skills necessary to write effective programs, with examples taken principally from the realm of data processing and analysis.  You will learn how to manipulate and analyse data, graph them and fit models to them.  Teaching takes place in workshop-style sessions in a software laboratory, so you can try things out as soon as you learn about them.
View Introduction to Programming in Python on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Dynamic programming and reinforcement learning
(15 CREDITS)
Are you interested in understanding how AlphaGo was able to beat a top Go player? In this module, you will learn about the models behind successful stories of Reinforcement Learning, where a machine (agent) makes sequential decisions to reach an optimal goal. The lectures will be complemented with Lab sessions where we will take advantage of the Open AI Gym environments, allowing us to train our agents to perform tasks such as playing videogames (Atari) and more.
View Dynamic programming and reinforcement learning on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Data Visualisation
(15 CREDITS)
In a world increasingly driven by data, the need for analysis and visualisation is more important than ever. In this module you will look at data through the eyes of a numerical detective. You will work on the lost art of exploratory data analysis, reviewing appropriate methods for data summaries with the aim to summarise, understand, extract hidden patterns and identify relationships. You will then work on graphical data analysis, using simple graphs to understand the data, but also advanced complex methods to scrutinise data and interactive plots to communicate data information to a wider audience.
For data analysis and visualisations you will use R-studio, and a combination of R-shiny applications and google visualisations for interactive plotting.
View Data Visualisation on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY WITH OPTIONS
Option(s) from list
(45 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 07: COMPULSORY
Research Skills and Employability
(0 CREDITS)
What skills do you need to succeed during your studies? What about after university? How will you harness your knowledge and soft skills to realise your career goals? This module helps you take an active role in developing transferrable skills and capitalising on your unique background. As well as broad reflection on your professional development, this module will help you explore different career directions and prepare you for the application process, supported by an advisor from within the department.
View Research Skills and Employability on our Module Directory
Teaching
Postgraduate Taught students in the School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science typically attend two hours of lectures and one class/lab every week, but this will vary dependent upon the module
Core components can be combined with optional modules, to enable you to gain either in-depth specialisation or a breadth of understanding
Learn to use LATEX to produce a document as close as possible to what professional mathematicians produce in terms of organisation, layout and type-setting
Our postgraduates are encouraged to attend conferences and seminars
Assessment
Courses are assessed on the results of your written examinations, together with continual assessments of your practical work and coursework
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£8,400
International fee
£18,200
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We hold
Open Days
for all our applicants throughout the year. Our Colchester Campus events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex, and give you the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
If the dates of our organised events aren’t suitable for you, feel free to get in touch by emailing
tours@essex.ac.uk
and we’ll arrange an individual campus tour for you.
Applying
You can
apply for this postgraduate course online
. Before you apply, please check our information about
necessary documents
that we'll ask you to provide as part of your application.
We aim to respond to applications within two weeks. If we are able to offer you a place, you will be contacted via email.
For information on our deadline to apply for this course, please see our ‘
how to apply
' information.
Applicants with an undergraduate degree from our School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science, or who are working towards one, should first contact our admissions staff:
maths@essex.ac.uk
.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree
virtual tour
allows you to explore the Colchester Campus from the comfort of your home. Check out our accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Related courses
MSc Optimisation and Data Analytics
Study mode:
Full-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Open Days
Come see for yourself
Read all about it
Get a prospectus
Study at Essex
Find a course
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website