Link: https://essex.funnelback.co.uk/s/redirect?collection=uoe-courses-meta&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.essex.ac.uk%2Fcourses%2FPG01081%2F2%2FPostgraduate-Diploma-Actuarial-Science&auth=EX5wGM12m7tq1QQAYLck9A&profile=_default&rank=44&query=_

University of Essex homepage
Masters
Courses
Postgraduate Diploma Actuarial Science
Postgraduate Course
Postgraduate Diploma Actuarial Science
Start date
October 2025
Study mode
Full Time
Ask a question
Get a prospectus
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
Overview
Entry requirements
Structure
Fees and funding
What's next?
How to apply
Overview
The details
Course:
Actuarial Science
Start date:
October 2025
Study mode:
Full-time
Duration:
9 months
Location:
Colchester Campus
Based in:
Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science (School of)
Actuaries provide assessments of financial security systems, with a focus on their complexity, their mathematics, and their mechanisms. Actuaries quantify the probability and manage the risk of future events in areas such as insurance, healthcare, pensions, investment, and banking and also in non-financial areas. This course is taught by the School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science and is intended for students with a first degree in mathematics, statistics, economics or finance who would like to acquire knowledge in actuarial science.
Our Postgraduate Diploma Actuarial Science course is based on the syllabus of the majority of the core subjects of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, so you'll cover subjects as part of your course CB1 (Business Finance) depending on the optional module selected, CM2 (Financial Engineering and Loss Reserving) and CS2 (Risk Modelling and Survival Analysis). This focus on up-to-date research findings in actuarial methodologies and actuarial applications means that you gain a solid training in actuarial modelling and actuarial analysis.
It is also possible to specialise on a topic of choice, with options including:
Actuarial and financial modelling
General insurance
Life insurance
You will also have the chance to study a problem in depth through a Masters thesis project on a subject chosen by you or your supervisor.
As part of our
School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science
you're a member of an inclusive and approachable research community with an international reputation in many areas including semi-group theory, optimisation, probability, applied statistics, bioinformatics and mathematical biology.
We are genuinely innovative and student-focused. Our research groups are working on a broad range of collaborative areas tackling real-world issues. Here are a few examples:
Our data scientists carefully consider how not to lie, and how not to get lied to with data. Interpreting data correctly is especially important because much of our data science research is applied directly or indirectly to social policies, including health, care and education.
We do practical research with financial data (for example, assessing the risk of collapse of the UK's banking system) as well as theoretical research in financial instruments such as insurance policies or asset portfolios.
We also research how physical processes develop in time and space. Applications of this range from modelling epilepsy to modelling electronic cables.
Our optimisation experts work out how to do the same job with less resource, or how to do more with the same resource.
Our pure maths group are currently working on two new funded projects entitled ‘Machine learning for recognising tangled 3D objects' and ‘Searching for gems in the landscape of cyclically presented groups'.
We also do research into mathematical education and use exciting technologies such as electroencephalography or eye tracking to measure exactly what a learner is feeling. Our research aims to encourage the implementation of ‘the four Cs' of modern education, which are critical thinking, communication, collaboration, and creativity.
Why we're great.
Study the majority of the Core Technical subjects of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
Work alongside expert academics and practising actuaries.
Through our pioneering teaching approach we develop the actuarial scientists of the future.
Our expert staff
Many of
our academics
have won national or regional awards for lecturing, and many of them are qualified and accredited teachers – something which is very rare at a university.
Our course teachers are expert academics conducting internationally excellent multidisciplinary research, with significant multi-year experience in consulting and practicing actuarial science. Our key actuarial science staff are Professor Spyridon Vrontos (specialising in actuarial and financial data science, predictive modelling and predictability), Dr Tolulope Fadina (mathematical finance), Dr Junlei Hu (reinsurance and optimal risk transfer), Dr Peng Liu (applied probability and queueing systems), Dr Jackie Wong (Bayesian methods and survival analysis), and Dr John O'Hara (financial mathematics and machine learning in finance).
Specialist facilities
You have access to our renowned
maths and stats skills support
, which offers help to students, staff and local businesses on a range of mathematical problems. Throughout term-time, we can chat through mathematical problems either on a one-to-one or small group basis
We have our own computer labs for the exclusive use of students in the School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science – in addition to your core maths modules, you gain computing knowledge of software including Matlab and Maple
We host events and seminars throughout the year
Your future
We expect our graduates of MSc Actuarial Science to become actuaries in a range of industries. It has been predicted by the US Department of Labor that the employment of actuaries is expected to grow faster than any other occupation, making it a great prospect for a graduate job.
Aside from a rewarding career as an actuary, clear thinkers are required in every profession, so the successful mathematician has an extensive choice of potential careers. The
Council for Mathematical Sciences
offers further information on careers in mathematics.
We also work with the University's Careers Services to help you find out about further work experience, internships, placements, and voluntary opportunities.
We also offer supervision for PhD, MPhil and MSc by Dissertation. We have an international reputation in many areas such as semi-group theory, optimisation, probability; applied statistics, bioinformatics and mathematical biology, and our School is strongly committed to research and to the promotion of graduate activities.
Entry requirements
UK entry requirements
A 2:2 degree or international equivalent in one of the following subjects:
Applied Mathematics
Biostatistics
Computer Science
Economic Statistics
Economics
Mathematics
Operational Research
Pure Mathematics
Statistics
OR
Any other 2:2 degree in any subject which includes
three modules
from the below lists:
One module, from:
Advanced Maths (I/II/III)
Calculus (I/II/III) - AKA Mathematical Analysis
Engineering Maths (I/II/III)
Maths (I/II/III)
And
One module, from:
Advanced Maths (I/II/III)
Engineering Maths (I/II/III)
Maths (I/II/III)
Statistics or Probability
And
One additional relevant module, from:
Advanced Maths (I/II/III)
Algebra
Analysis
Complex Numbers
Differential Equations
Engineering Maths (I/II/III)
Maths (I/II/III)
Numerical Methods
Optimisation (Linear Programming)
Programming Language (R or MATLAB or Python)
Regression
Another module in Probability or Statistics
Stochastic Process
Applicants with a degree below 2:2 or equivalent will be considered dependent on any relevant professional or voluntary experience and previous modules studied.
International & EU entry requirements
We accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants studying in the EU and other countries. Get in touch with any questions you may have about the qualifications we accept. Remember to tell us about the qualifications you have already completed or are currently taking.
AFGHANISTAN
ALBANIA
ALGERIA
ANDORRA
ANGOLA
ANTIGUA AND BARBUADA
ARGENTINA
ARMENIA
ARUBA
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA
AZERBAIJAN
BAHAMAS
BAHRAIN
BANGLADESH
BARBADOS
BELARUS (BYELORUSSIA)
BELGIUM
BELIZE
BENIN
BERMUDA
BHUTAN
BOLIVIA
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
BOTSWANA
BRAZIL
BRUNEI
BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
BURUNDI
CAMBODIA (KAMPUCHEA, KHMER R)
CAMEROON
CANADA
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CHAD
CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COMOROS
CONGO
CONGO (DEM REB, ZAIRE)
COSTA RICA
CROATIA
CUBA
CYPRUS
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DJIBOUTI
DOMINICA
DOMINICAN REP
EAST TIMOR
ECUADOR
EGYPT
EL SALVADOR
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
ERITREA
ESTONIA
ETHIOPIA (ABYSSINIA)
FIJI
FINLAND
FRANCE
GABON
GAMBIA
GEORGIA
GERMANY
GHANA
GIBRALTAR
GILBERT ISLANDS (KIRIBATI)
GREECE
GRENADA
GUATEMALA
GUIANA, FRENCH
GUINEA
GUINEA BISSAU
GUYANA
HAITI
HONDURAS
HONG KONG
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
IRAN (ISLAMIC REP)
IRAQ
IRELAND, REP
ISRAEL
ITALY
IVORY COAST
JAMAICA
JAPAN
JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
KENYA
KOREA SOUTH
KOSOVO
KUWAIT
KYRGYZSTAN (KIRGIZIA)
LAOS
LATVIA
LEBANON
LESOTHO
LIBERIA
LIBYA
LIECHTENSTEIN
LITHUANIA
LUXEMBOURG
MACEDONIA. ALSO SKOPJE
MADAGASCAR (MALAGASY REP)
MALAWI
MALAYSIA
MALDIVE ISLANDS
MALI
MALTA
MARSHALL ISLANDS
MAURITANIA
MAURITIUS
MEXICO
MOLDOVA
MONACO
MONGOLIA, OUTER
MONTENEGRO
MONTSERRAT
MOROCCO
MOZAMBIQUE
MYANMAR (formerly Burma)
NAMIBIA
NAURU
NEPAL
NETHERLANDS (HOLLAND)
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NIGER
NIGERIA
NORWAY
OMAN (MUSCAT AND OMAN)
PAKISTAN
PALESTINE
PANAMA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILIPPINES
POLAND
PORTUGAL (MADEIRA, AZORES)
QATAR
ROMANIA
RUSSIA
RWANDA
SAMOA (WESTERN)
SAN MARINO
SAUDI ARABIA
SENEGAL
SERBIA
SEYCHELLES
SIERRA LEONE
SINGAPORE
SLOVAKIA
SLOVENIA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SOMALI REPUBLIC
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH GEORGE & STH SANDWICH IS
SOUTH SUDAN
SPAIN
SRI LANKA (CEYLON)
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT
SUDAN
SURINAM
SWAZILAND
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
SYRIA
TAIWAN
TAJIKISTAN
TANZANIA
THAILAND
TOGO
TONGA
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TUNISIA
TURKEY
TURKMENISTAN
TUVALU, ALSO ELLICE ISLANDS
UGANDA
UKRAINE
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
UNITED STATES
URUGUAY
UZBEKISTAN
VANUATU
VENEZUELA
VIETNAM, SOC REP
YEMEN (PDR,ADEN,SOCOTRA)
ZAMBIA
ZIMBABWE
Sorry, the entry requirements for the country that you have selected are not available here. Please contact our Graduate Admissions team at
pgquery@essex.ac.uk
to request the entry requirements for this country.
English language requirements
If English is not your first language, we require IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum
component score of 5.5 in all components.
If you do not meet our IELTS requirements then you may be able to complete a
pre-sessional English
pathway
that enables you to start your course without retaking IELTS.
Additional Notes
The University uses academic selection criteria to determine an applicant’s ability to successfully complete a course at the University of Essex. Where appropriate, we may ask for specific information relating to previous modules studied or work experience.
Structure
Course structure
Our research-led teaching is continually evolving to address the latest challenges and breakthroughs in the field. The following modules are based on the current course structure and may change in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.
We understand that deciding where and what to study is a very important decision for you. We'll make all reasonable efforts to provide you with the courses, services and facilities as described on our website and in line with your contract with us. However, if we need to make material changes, for example due to significant disruption, we'll let our applicants and students know as soon as possible.
Components and modules explained
Components
Components are the blocks of study that make up your course. A component may have a set module which you must study, or a number of modules from which you can choose.
Each component has a status and carries a certain number of credits towards your qualification.
Status
What this means
Core
You must take the set module for this component and you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Core with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component but you must pass. No failure can be permitted.
Compulsory
You must take the set module for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Compulsory with Options
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
Optional
You can choose which module to study from the available options for this component. There may be limited opportunities to continue on the course/be eligible for the qualification if you fail.
The modules that are available for you to choose for each component will depend on several factors, including which modules you have chosen for other components, which modules you have completed in previous years of your course, and which term the module is taught in.
Modules
Modules are the individual units of study for your course. Each module has its own set of learning outcomes and assessment criteria and also carries a certain number of credits.
In most cases you will study one module per component, but in some cases you may need to study more than one module. For example, a 30-credit component may comprise of either one 30-credit module, or two 15-credit modules, depending on the options available.
Modules may be taught at different times of the year and by a different department or school to the one your course is primarily based in. You can find this information from the
module code
. For example, the module code HR100-4-FY means:
HR
100
4
FY
The department or school the module will be taught by.
In this example, the module would be taught by the Department of History.
The module number.
The
UK academic level
of the module.
A standard undergraduate course will comprise of level 4, 5 and 6 modules - increasing as you progress through the course.
A standard postgraduate taught course will comprise of level 7 modules.
A postgraduate research degree is a level 8 qualification.
The term the module will be taught in.
AU
: Autumn term
SP
: Spring term
SU
: Summer term
FY
: Full year
AP
: Autumn and Spring terms
PS:
Spring and Summer terms
AS:
Autumn and Summer terms
Year 1
COMPONENT 01: COMPULSORY
Bayesian and Computational Statistics
(15 CREDITS)
This module focuses on Bayesian and computational statistics. You will develop your understanding of Bayes’ theorem and Bayesian statistical modelling, and Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation, by developing algorithms for simple probability distributions.
View Bayesian and Computational Statistics on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 02: COMPULSORY
Contingencies I
(15 CREDITS)
How do you define simple assurance contracts? What practical methods are required to evaluate expected values from a contract? How can you calculate gross premiums and reserves of assurance and reserves? Understand the mathematical techniques that can calculate, model and value cashflows dependent on death, survival or other uncertain risks.
View Contingencies I on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 03: COMPULSORY
Statistical Methods
(15 CREDITS)
This module will enable you to expand your knowledge on multiple statistical methods. You will learn the concepts of decision theory and how to apply them, have the chance to explore Monte Carlo simulation, and develop an understanding of Bayesian inference, and the basic concepts of a generalised linear model.
View Statistical Methods on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 04: COMPULSORY
Stochastic Processes
(15 CREDITS)
Ever considered becoming an Actuary? This module covers the required material for the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries CT4 and CT6 syllabus. It explores the stochastic process and principles of actuarial modelling alongside time series models and analysis.
View Stochastic Processes on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 05: COMPULSORY
Financial Derivatives
(15 CREDITS)
Why are arbitrage arguments important in modern finance? How can a binomial model evaluate derivatives? What are the main models for interest rates? Understand the mathematical techniques underlying the modelling of derivative pricing. Acquire skills in the development of pricing and risk management. Explore stochastic methods and credit risk.
View Financial Derivatives on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 06: COMPULSORY
Survival Analysis
(15 CREDITS)
What are the principles of actuarial modelling? And what are survival models? Examine how calculations in clinical trials, pensions, and life and health insurance require reliable estimates of transition intensities/survival rates. Learn how to estimate these intensities. Build your understanding of estimation procedures for lifetime distributions.
View Survival Analysis on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 07: COMPULSORY
Mathematics of Portfolios
(15 CREDITS)
How do you formulate financial decision problems mathematically? And how do you identify an appropriate method of solution? Understand the basic models and mathematical methods underlying modern portfolio management. Assess the limitations of these models and learn to correctly interpret your results from calculations.
View Mathematics of Portfolios on our Module Directory
COMPONENT 08: COMPULSORY WITH OPTIONS
MA211-7-SP or MA312-7-SP
(15 CREDITS)
COMPONENT 09: COMPULSORY
Research Skills and Employability
(0 CREDITS)
What skills do you need to succeed during your studies? What about after university? How will you harness your knowledge and soft skills to realise your career goals? This module helps you take an active role in developing transferrable skills and capitalising on your unique background. As well as broad reflection on your professional development, this module will help you explore different career directions and prepare you for the application process, supported by an advisor from within the department.
View Research Skills and Employability on our Module Directory
Teaching
Postgraduate Taught students in the School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science typically attend two hours of lectures and one class/lab every week, but this will vary dependent upon the module
Core components can be combined with optional modules, to enable you to gain either in-depth specialisation or a breadth of understanding
Learn to use LATEX to produce a document as close as possible to what professional mathematicians produce in terms of organisation, layout and type-setting
Our postgraduates are encouraged to attend conferences and seminars on a Thursday afternoon
Assessment
Courses are assessed on the results of your written examinations, together with continual assessments of your practical work and coursework
Fees and funding
Home/UK fee
£8,400
International fee
£18,200
Masters fees and funding information
Research (e.g. PhD) fees and funding information
What's next
Open Days
We hold
Open Days
for all our applicants throughout the year. Our Colchester Campus events are a great way to find out more about studying at Essex, and give you the chance to:
tour our campus and accommodation
find out answers to your questions about our courses, student finance, graduate employability, student support and more
meet our students and staff
If the dates of our organised events aren’t suitable for you, feel free to get in touch by emailing
tours@essex.ac.uk
and we’ll arrange an individual campus tour for you.
Applying
You can
apply for this postgraduate course online
. Before you apply, please check our information about
necessary documents
that we'll ask you to provide as part of your application.
We aim to respond to applications within two weeks. If we are able to offer you a place, you will be contacted via email.
For information on our deadline to apply for this course, please see our ‘
how to apply
' information.
Applicants with an undergraduate degree from our School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science, or who are working towards one, should first contact our admissions staff:
maths@essex.ac.uk
.
Visit Colchester Campus
Set within 200 acres of
award-winning
parkland -
Wivenhoe Park
and located two miles from the
historic city centre of Colchester
– England's oldest recorded development. Our Colchester Campus is also easily reached from London and Stansted Airport in under one hour.
Find out more
Virtual tours
If you live too far away to come to Essex (or have a busy lifestyle), no problem. Our 360 degree
virtual tour
allows you to explore the Colchester Campus from the comfort of your home. Check out our accommodation options, facilities and social spaces.
At Essex we pride ourselves on being a welcoming and inclusive student community. We offer a wide range of support to individuals and groups of student members who may have specific requirements, interests or responsibilities.
Find out more
The University makes every effort to ensure that this information on its programme specification is accurate and up-to-date. Exceptionally it can be necessary to make changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees. Examples of such reasons might include, but are not limited to: strikes, other industrial action, staff illness, severe weather, fire, civil commotion, riot, invasion, terrorist attack or threat of terrorist attack (whether declared or not), natural disaster, restrictions imposed by government or public authorities, epidemic or pandemic disease, failure of public utilities or transport systems or the withdrawal/reduction of funding. Changes to courses may for example consist of variations to the content and method of delivery of programmes, courses and other services, to discontinue programmes, courses and other services and to merge or combine programmes or courses. The University will endeavour to keep such changes to a minimum, and will also keep students informed appropriately by updating our
programme specifications
. The University would inform and engage with you if your course was to be discontinued, and would provide you with options, where appropriate, in line with our Compensation and Refund Policy.
The full Procedures, Rules and Regulations of the University governing how it operates are set out in the Charter, Statutes and
Ordinances and in the University Regulations, Policy and Procedures.
Related courses
MSc Actuarial Science
Study mode:
Full-time
Part-time
Location:
Colchester Campus
Ask us a question
Want to quiz us about your course? Got a question that just needs answering? Get in touch with us on live chat!
Talk to us on live chat
Sign up to hear about our courses
Click4Assistance UK Live Chat Software
Open Days
Come see for yourself
Read all about it
Get a prospectus
Study at Essex
Find a course
STUDY
Course Finder
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Short courses and CPD
International students
Study online
Apprenticeships
Summer Schools
Find a course
LIFE
Student life
Student accommodation
Essex Sport
Colchester Campus
Southend Campus
Loughton Campus
Careers and Employability
Student support
RESEARCH
Research excellence
Research showcase
Media requests
Research Excellence Framework (REF)
Research institutes and centres
EXPLORE
About us
Departments
Contact us
How to pay your fees
Jobs
A-Z
Students
Alumni
Staff
Business
CONTACT US
Contact
General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk
Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk
Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1206 873333
University of Essex
Wivenhoe Park
Colchester CO4 3SQ
Cookie settings
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Our privacy statements
Our transparency return
Modern slavery and human trafficking
CONNECT WITH US
University of Essex Instagram
University of Essex TikTok
University of Essex Youtube
University of Essex Facebook
University of Essex LinkedIn
University of Essex Twitter
University of Essex Weibo
© 2024 University of Essex.
All rights reserved
UNRVLD Digital Agency website