Link: http://www.mtroyal.ca/ProgramsCourses/FacultiesSchoolsCentres/HealthCommunityEducation/Programs/AdvancedStudiesinCriticalCareNursingCertificate/index.htm

Toggle navigation
Programs
& Courses
Programs & Courses Home
Programs Offered
Collaborative Degrees
International Designated Programs
Continuing Education
The Conservatory
Faculties/Schools/Centres
General Education
Community Service Learning
Course Listings
About
Fast Facts
Equity, Diversity and Inclusion
Indigenization and Decolonization
Institutional Research & Planning
Teaching & Learning
Giving to Mount Royal
Alumni
Media Room
Marketing & Communications
Governance & Leadership
Explore campus
Parking & Transportation
Sustainable MRU
Apply
Admission
Admission Home
Apply
Admission Requirements
Transcripts for Admission
Viewbook
Dates & Deadlines
Financing Your Education
Guidance Counsellors
Campus Tours
Open House
Admission Information Sessions
Contact Us
Academic
Support
Academic Support Home
Academic Calendar
Advising
Resources & Services
Office of the Registrar
Campus
Services
Campus Services Home
A-Z Services
Getting Involved
Recreation
Cougar Athletics
Campus Resources
Facilities Management
Iniskim Centre
Residence Services
Safety & Risk
Employee Wellness
Wellness Services
Dating, Domestic & Sexual Violence
Library
Library Home
Find & Borrow
Help With...
Spaces
About
Ask Us
My Library Account
Hours
Research
Research Home
Centre for Community Disaster Research
Centre for Health and Innovation in Aging
Institute for Community Prosperity
Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Miistakis Institute
QriTical Research Hub
Trico Changemakers Studio
Careers
Students & Alumni
Work at MRU
HR
Advanced Studies in Critical Care Nursing
Certificate
Starting at 1 year, up to 6 years
Learn how to apply
Program highlights
Work placement opportunity
Begin a new career path
— Gain the knowledge, skills and experience to work and thrive in the critical care environment.
Expand your knowledge
— Already working in ICU or ER? The ACCN program builds on your existing knowledge and skills to deepen your practice.
Choose from two specialized streams
— To meet your career goals, focus your studies by selecting either the Intensive Care Nursing or Emergency Nursing stream
Experiential, student-centred learning
— Consolidate theory with practical experience during preceptored placement in an intensive care or emergency setting
The Mount Royal University Advanced Studies in Critical Care Nursing (ACCN) program is the perfect blend of semester-based theoretical coursework and hands-on clinical practicums uniquely offered through online distance learning to adjust to where you live and your busy life. Applicants have up to six years to complete the program allowing you to take the courses at your own pace. Flexibility within the semester is built in to allow adult learners to manage external commitments.
The ACCN program is recognized by ER and ICU departments across Canada giving graduates from our program a competitive edge when applying for positions.
Clinical practicums
Clinical practicums are offered at select locations across Canada (some restrictions apply). International students, please contact us for possible options. A minimum of one year full-time equivalent of medical/surgical experience in acute care is required before entering the clinical practicum.
Nurses currently working in the ER or ICU
You may be eligible to challenge the clinical practicum by showcasing your experience. Please contact the course coordinator to see if your experience can be counted towards the clinical practicum hours.
Allied health personnel or nursing student
You may be eligible to take certain theory courses in the ACCN program. Please contact us if you are an allied health personnel or nursing student before applying to discuss your options.
Streams
To meet your career goals, this program offers two distinct streams of study:
Intensive Care Nursing
Four three-credit theory courses and a 210-hour clinical practicum
Learn to work as an intensive care nurse with critically ill and injured patients requiring close monitoring for complex situations
Become an expert at assessing and managing interconnected physiological systems and achieving optimal outcomes for critically ill patients
Be prepared to work in a range of ICU units, ranging from general settings to more specific units, including burn and cardiac
Emergency Nursing
Four three-credit theory courses and a 210-hour clinical practicum
Learn to thrive in a fast-paced and unpredictable environment with a wide variety of clinical presentations, from minor injuries to critical illnesses or major trauma
Help achieve optimal outcomes for patients in all age groups using evidence-based nursing practices
Be prepared to work in rural, urban and northern settings and/or provide flight nursing care
Curriculum and courses
Admission requirements and costs
Vaccination requirements
All health care workers in Alberta are required to be vaccinated against Rubella pursuant to the Alberta Public Health Act, Communicable Diseases Regulation.
To be eligible to graduate from the Advanced Studies in Critical Care Nursing program, students must complete practicums located in clinical sites which require them to be immunized against Rubella. At this time, if someone has a medical condition or other reason which prevents them from receiving the immunization with the live Rubella vaccine, they will be unable to complete the prerequisites required to complete the program and will not be eligible for graduation from the program.
For more information on immunizations recommended and required of health care workers in Alberta, please see the following resource from Alberta Health Services:
Immunization Recommended for Health Care Students and Students in Other High-Risk Occupation Programs (PDF)
Questions?
Information about the program can be answered by the ACCN team.
Contact us
Be bold.
Be inquisitive.
Be transformed.
Discover everything you need to know about becoming an MRU student.
Study at MRU
Learn about the additional supports and services we have available specifically for:
Indigenous students
International students
Learn about the additional supports and services we have available specifically for:
Indigenous students
International students
Building a foundation for fast-paced nursing
Extension certificate stream concentrates on the emergency room
Read more
Finding your nursing niche in the ICU
ACCN program provides additional training for difficult medical scenarios
Read more
ACCN certificate comprehensive and flexible
Shandell Petker fulfills career goal of working in emergency
Read more
Take the next steps to become a Mount Royal student
Application process
Sign up for an info session
Apply now
School of Nursing and Midwifery
Mount Royal is pleased to offer the
Bachelor of Midwifery
,
Bachelor of Nursing
,
Bridge to Canadian Nursing
program and Advanced Studies in Critical Nursing certificate.
Learn more
Virtual Information Sessions
Select a session that suits you. Choose from general information, specific by program, drop in Q&A, or attend an Indigenous or international student session.
Sign-up