Link: https://www.mtroyal.ca/ProgramsCourses/FacultiesSchoolsCentres/HealthCommunityEducation/Programs/EarlyLearingChildCare/index.htm

Toggle navigation
Programs
& Courses
Programs & Courses Home
Programs Offered
Collaborative Degrees
International Designated Programs
Continuing Education
The Conservatory
Faculties/Schools/Centres
General Education
Community Service Learning
Course Listings
About
Fast Facts
Equity, Diversity and Inclusion
Indigenization and Decolonization
Institutional Research & Planning
Teaching & Learning
Giving to Mount Royal
Alumni
Media Room
Marketing & Communications
Governance & Leadership
Explore campus
Parking & Transportation
Sustainable MRU
Apply
Admission
Admission Home
Apply
Admission Requirements
Transcripts for Admission
Viewbook
Dates & Deadlines
Financing Your Education
Guidance Counsellors
Campus Tours
Open House
Admission Information Sessions
Contact Us
Academic
Support
Academic Support Home
Academic Calendar
Advising
Resources & Services
Office of the Registrar
Campus
Services
Campus Services Home
A-Z Services
Getting Involved
Recreation
Cougar Athletics
Campus Resources
Facilities Management
Iniskim Centre
Residence Services
Safety & Risk
Employee Wellness
Wellness Services
Dating, Domestic & Sexual Violence
Library
Library Home
Find & Borrow
Help With...
Spaces
About
Ask Us
My Library Account
Hours
Research
Research Home
Centre for Community Disaster Research
Centre for Health and Innovation in Aging
Institute for Community Prosperity
Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Miistakis Institute
QriTical Research Hub
Trico Changemakers Studio
Careers
Students & Alumni
Work at MRU
HR
Early Learning and Child Care
Bachelor of Child Studies (BCST)
4 years
Learn how to apply
Program highlights
Work placement opportunity
Gain practical experience
— opportunities like fieldwork, practicums and capstone courses will allow you to put theory into practice and gain the valuable skills that will support you in your career.
Get certified
― gain foundational knowledge in preparation to meet professional certification requirements.
Participate in research
— explore topics like community coalition development, sociocultural and child developmental perspectives, mapping family/community-based resources and more.
Get involved
— join the
Bachelor of Child Studies Society
to gain support and establish a sense of community.
Learn about our past capstone projects
Discover how play can be a powerful force in a child’s development. Learn about the developmental needs of children from infancy to age 12 and gain the ability to design, co-construct and implement play experiences for children as well as how to communicate effectively with parents and professionals. With emphasis on real-world learning situations along with lab simulations, role playing and discussion groups, you'll graduate well prepared to provide care and learning for all children, including those who have special needs.
Early Learning and Child Care (ELCC) Post-diploma Entrance Option
Students possessing a completed ELCC diploma from an accredited post-secondary institution, may apply through a competitive process directly into the third year of the Bachelor of Child Studies. Students accepted with a post-secondary diploma will normally receive transfer credit for up to 60 credits (20 courses) towards the Bachelor of Child Studies.
Career possibilities
Early childhood educator
Licensing officer
Family dayhome consultant
Family support worker/parent educator
Educational assistant in primary grades
Child care preschool director/operator
Child development facilitator
Child care centre director/administrator
Admission requirements and costs
Curriculum and courses
Questions?
Explore the
program FAQs
for answers to common questions. For additional information about admission requirements and the application process, connect with an admissions and recruitment specialist.
Contact us
Be bold.
Be inquisitive.
Be transformed.
Discover everything you need to know about becoming an MRU student.
Study at MRU
Learn about the additional supports and services we have available specifically for:
Indigenous students
International students
Learn about the additional supports and services we have available specifically for:
Indigenous students
International students
Sootsiman project shares knowledge and culture
Indigenous-inspired, hands-on experience for students
Read more
Capping off an MRU education
Students finish their programs with valuable capstone experiences
Read more
Discovering the right fit for a meaningful career
MRU alumna returns to further her focus
Read more
Take the next steps to become a Mount Royal student
Application process
Sign up for an info session
Apply now
Faculty of Healthy, Community and Education
Mount Royal is pleased to offer the Bachelor of Child Studies degree, including majors in
Child and Youth Care Counsellor
and Early Learning and Child Care.
Learn more
Virtual Information Sessions
Select a session that suits you. Choose from general information, specific by program, drop in Q&A, or attend an Indigenous or international student session.
Sign-up