Link: http://www.mtroyal.ca/ProgramsCourses/FacultiesSchoolsCentres/HealthCommunityEducation/Programs/BachelorofNursing/index.htm

Toggle navigation
Programs
& Courses
Programs & Courses Home
Programs Offered
Collaborative Degrees
International Designated Programs
Continuing Education
The Conservatory
Faculties/Schools/Centres
General Education
Community Service Learning
Course Listings
About
Fast Facts
Equity, Diversity and Inclusion
Indigenization and Decolonization
Institutional Research & Planning
Teaching & Learning
Giving to Mount Royal
Alumni
Media Room
Marketing & Communications
Governance & Leadership
Explore campus
Parking & Transportation
Sustainable MRU
Apply
Admission
Admission Home
Apply
Admission Requirements
Transcripts for Admission
Viewbook
Dates & Deadlines
Financing Your Education
Guidance Counsellors
Campus Tours
Open House
Admission Information Sessions
Contact Us
Academic
Support
Academic Support Home
Academic Calendar
Advising
Resources & Services
Office of the Registrar
Campus
Services
Campus Services Home
A-Z Services
Getting Involved
Recreation
Cougar Athletics
Campus Resources
Facilities Management
Iniskim Centre
Residence Services
Safety & Risk
Employee Wellness
Wellness Services
Dating, Domestic & Sexual Violence
Library
Library Home
Find & Borrow
Help With...
Spaces
About
Ask Us
My Library Account
Hours
Research
Research Home
Centre for Community Disaster Research
Centre for Health and Innovation in Aging
Institute for Community Prosperity
Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Miistakis Institute
QriTical Research Hub
Trico Changemakers Studio
Careers
Students & Alumni
Work at MRU
HR
Bachelor of Nursing (BN)
4 years
Learn how to apply
Program highlights
Work placement opportunity
Gain practical experience
— you will have the opportunity to put what you learn to work in a variety of potential health care settings, including: urban and rural hospitals, schools outpatient clinics and more.
Build knowledge with concentrated blocks of study
― in-depth, intense theory and practice in seniors' health, family newborn health, child health, mental health and adult health consolidate your learning and enable you to move further in your studies.
Learn about health, wellness, collaborative health care and how to effectively engage with communities. Prepare for professional practice in a variety of health-care settings and capitalize on the demand for nursing graduates in Alberta, Canada and around the world. Graduates are prepared to write the required National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX-RN®) and become registered nurses.
The Bachelor of Nursing degree is designed to meet the accreditation requirements of the
Canadian Association of Schools of Nursing
, the body that establishes and promotes national standards of excellence for nursing education in Canada.
Nursing education prepares students to meet the entry-level competencies necessary to be knowledgeable, skilled and competent to practise nursing safely and ethically. Learn more about the
College of Registered Nurses of Alberta's (CRNA) Requisite Skills and Abilities for Becoming an RN in Alberta (March 2023)
.
Career possibilities
Registered nurse (RN)
Health administrator*
Health education specialist*
Nurse practitioner*
Nurse researcher/scholar*
Nurse administrator*
Nurse educator*
Nurse clinician*
* additional education, experience and/or training required
Curriculum and courses
Admission requirements and costs
Note: There is no guarantee that previously completed nursing courses taken at another institution will be granted credit in the Bachelor of Nursing degree program.
Clinical practice requirements
N95 Mask Fit testing, Immunization documents/records, Police Information Check with Vulnerable Sector Search, C.P.R. Health Care Provider Certification
Vaccination requirements
All health care workers in Alberta are required to be vaccinated against Rubella pursuant to the Alberta Public Health Act, Communicable Diseases Regulation.
To be eligible to graduate from the Bachelor of Nursing program, students must complete practicums located in clinical sites which require them to be immunized against Rubella. At this time, if someone has a medical condition or other reason which prevents them from receiving the immunization with the live Rubella vaccine, they will be unable to complete the prerequisites required to complete the program and will not be eligible for graduation from the program.
For more information on immunizations recommended and required of health care workers in Alberta, please see the following resource from Alberta Health Services:
Immunization Recommended for Health Care Students and Students in Other High-Risk Occupation Programs (PDF)
Questions?
Explore the
program FAQs
for answers to common questions. For additional information about admission requirements and the application process, connect with an admissions and recruitment specialist.
Contact us
Be bold.
Be inquisitive.
Be transformed.
Discover everything you need to know about becoming an MRU student.
Study at MRU
Learn about the additional supports and services we have available specifically for:
Indigenous students
International students
Learn about the additional supports and services we have available specifically for:
Indigenous students
International students
Students and patients inform research of MRU nursing professor
Dr. Mohamed El-Hussein researches health care through nursing lens.
Read more
2021 Outstanding Alumni Award — Community Service
How nursing alumna Rachael Edwards is helping to bring more compassion to health care.
Read more
Research happens everywhere
Professor’s work using photography to address global inequities in health care.
Read more
Take the next steps to become a Mount Royal student
Application process
Sign up for an info session
Apply now
School of Nursing and Midwifery
Mount Royal is pleased to offer the
Bachelor of Midwifery
, Bachelor of Nursing,
Bridge to Canadian Nursing
program and
Advanced Studies in Critical Nursing
certificate.
Learn more
Virtual Information Sessions
Select a session that suits you. Choose from general information, specific by program, drop in Q&A, or attend an Indigenous or international student session.
Sign-up