Link: http://www.mtroyal.ca/ProgramsCourses/FacultiesSchoolsCentres/HealthCommunityEducation/Programs/BachelorofMidwifery/index.htm

Toggle navigation
Programs
& Courses
Programs & Courses Home
Programs Offered
Collaborative Degrees
International Designated Programs
Continuing Education
The Conservatory
Faculties/Schools/Centres
General Education
Community Service Learning
Course Listings
About
Fast Facts
Equity, Diversity and Inclusion
Indigenization and Decolonization
Institutional Research & Planning
Teaching & Learning
Giving to Mount Royal
Alumni
Media Room
Marketing & Communications
Governance & Leadership
Explore campus
Parking & Transportation
Sustainable MRU
Apply
Admission
Admission Home
Apply
Admission Requirements
Transcripts for Admission
Viewbook
Dates & Deadlines
Financing Your Education
Guidance Counsellors
Campus Tours
Open House
Admission Information Sessions
Contact Us
Academic
Support
Academic Support Home
Academic Calendar
Advising
Resources & Services
Office of the Registrar
Campus
Services
Campus Services Home
A-Z Services
Getting Involved
Recreation
Cougar Athletics
Campus Resources
Facilities Management
Iniskim Centre
Residence Services
Safety & Risk
Employee Wellness
Wellness Services
Dating, Domestic & Sexual Violence
Library
Library Home
Find & Borrow
Help With...
Spaces
About
Ask Us
My Library Account
Hours
Research
Research Home
Centre for Community Disaster Research
Centre for Health and Innovation in Aging
Institute for Community Prosperity
Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Miistakis Institute
QriTical Research Hub
Trico Changemakers Studio
Careers
Students & Alumni
Work at MRU
HR
Bachelor of Midwifery (B.Mid.)
4 years
Learn how to apply
Program highlights
Work placement opportunity
Gain practical experience
— complete clinical placements to experience relevant clinical settings including midwifery practices, labour-delivery hospital units and community organizations.
Get registered
― graduate ready to take the
Canadian Midwifery Registration Examination (CMRE)
. Successful completion of the CMRE is one of the eligibility requirements to register as a midwife in Canada.
Create personal and professional connections
— build a lifelong network by working closely with practicing midwives and Mount Royal faculty.
In Alberta’s only Bachelor of Midwifery degree program, students work with faculty and practicing midwives to blend theory with practice while providing care to childbearing people and their families.
This degree prepares students to become a primary-care provider in the growing field of midwifery. Graduates are eligible to write the Canadian Midwifery Registration Examination (CMRE) and become registered midwives.
Read our statement on
racism and systemic bias in midwifery.
Career possibilities
Registered midwife (independent, team or hospital-based)
Midwifery or health educator*
Midwifery or health researcher/scholar*
Midwifery administrator*
* additional education, experience and/or training required
Curriculum and courses
Admission requirements and costs
Vaccination requirements
All health care workers in Alberta are required to be vaccinated against Rubella pursuant to the Alberta Public Health Act, Communicable Diseases Regulation.
To be eligible to graduate from the Bachelor of Midwifery program, students must complete practicums located in clinical sites which require them to be immunized against Rubella. At this time, if someone has a medical condition or other reason which prevents them from receiving the immunization with the live Rubella vaccine, they will be unable to complete the prerequisites required to complete the program and will not be eligible for graduation from the program.
For more information on immunizations recommended and required of health care workers in Alberta, please see the following resource from Alberta Health Services:
Immunization Recommended for Health Care Students and Students in Other High-Risk Occupation Programs (PDF)
Questions?
Explore the
program FAQs
for answers to common questions. For additional information about admission requirements and the application process, connect with an admissions and recruitment specialist.
Contact us
Be bold.
Be inquisitive.
Be transformed.
Discover everything you need to know about becoming an MRU student.
Study at MRU
Learn about the additional supports and services we have available specifically for:
Indigenous students
International students
Learn about the additional supports and services we have available specifically for:
Indigenous students
International students
Health care with heart
MRU nurses and midwives address patient needs with strength and compassion.
Read more
Call the midwife!
MRU alumni makes a difference.
Read more
New opportunities for aspiring health professionals
MRU and American Canadian School of Medicine sign agreement.
Read more
Take the next steps to become a Mount Royal student
Application process
Sign up for an info session
Apply now
School of Nursing and Midwifery
Mount Royal is pleased to offer the Bachelor of Midwifery,
Bachelor of Nursing
,
Bridge to Canadian Nursing
program and
Advanced Studies in Critical Nursing
certificate.
Learn more
Virtual Information Sessions
Select a session that suits you. Choose from general information, specific by program, drop in Q&A, or attend an Indigenous or international student session.
Sign-up