Link: https://www.mtroyal.ca/ProgramsCourses/FacultiesSchoolsCentres/HealthCommunityEducation/Programs/ChildandYouthCareCounsellor/index.htm

Toggle navigation
Programs
& Courses
Programs & Courses Home
Programs Offered
Collaborative Degrees
International Designated Programs
Continuing Education
The Conservatory
Faculties/Schools/Centres
General Education
Community Service Learning
Course Listings
About
Fast Facts
Equity, Diversity and Inclusion
Indigenization and Decolonization
Institutional Research & Planning
Teaching & Learning
Giving to Mount Royal
Alumni
Media Room
Marketing & Communications
Governance & Leadership
Explore campus
Parking & Transportation
Sustainable MRU
Apply
Admission
Admission Home
Apply
Admission Requirements
Transcripts for Admission
Viewbook
Dates & Deadlines
Financing Your Education
Guidance Counsellors
Campus Tours
Open House
Admission Information Sessions
Contact Us
Academic
Support
Academic Support Home
Academic Calendar
Advising
Resources & Services
Office of the Registrar
Campus
Services
Campus Services Home
A-Z Services
Getting Involved
Recreation
Cougar Athletics
Campus Resources
Facilities Management
Iniskim Centre
Residence Services
Safety & Risk
Employee Wellness
Wellness Services
Dating, Domestic & Sexual Violence
Library
Library Home
Find & Borrow
Help With...
Spaces
About
Ask Us
My Library Account
Hours
Research
Research Home
Centre for Community Disaster Research
Centre for Health and Innovation in Aging
Institute for Community Prosperity
Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Miistakis Institute
QriTical Research Hub
Trico Changemakers Studio
Careers
Students & Alumni
Work at MRU
HR
Child and Youth Care Counsellor
Bachelor of Child Studies (BCST)
4 years
Learn how to apply
Program highlights
Work placement opportunity
Gain practical experience
— opportunities like fieldwork, practicums and capstone courses will allow you to put theory into practice and gain the valuable skills that will support you in your career.
Get certified
― gain foundational knowledge in preparation to meet professional certification requirements.
Participate in research
— learn how you can participate in independent and applied research, or work alongside faculty on research projects.
Get involved
— join the
Bachelor of Child Studies Society
to gain support and establish a sense of community.
Learn about our past capstone projects
Make a difference in the lives of children, youth and families who have been made vulnerable by systems and institutions. Learn the skills of counselling and advocacy in working with children, youth and young adults. Gain knowledge and experience in areas such as relational practice, child and adolescent development, mental health and assessment and intervention strategies. Employment opportunities include school programs, group homes, treatment and mental health centres, and community programs. The children, youth and families you will work with may have suffered physical, sexual or emotional abuse, neglect and/or family breakdown. Some may also have behavioural or learning difficulties which require your knowledge, skill and support.
Child and Youth Care Counsellor (CYCC) Post-diploma Entrance Option
Students possessing a completed CYCC diploma from an accredited post-secondary institution, may apply through a competitive process directly into the third year of the Bachelor of Child Studies. Students accepted with a post-secondary diploma will normally receive transfer credit for up to 60 credits (20 courses) towards the Bachelor of Child Studies.
Career possibilities
Child and youth care counsellor
Inclusion/educational support worker
Youth justice worker
Family and behavioural support worker
Child and family services case worker
School-based child and youth care
Team leader/supervisor
Admission requirements and costs
Curriculum and courses
Questions?
Explore the
program FAQs
for answers to common questions. For additional information about admission requirements and the application process, connect with an admissions and recruitment specialist.
Contact us
Be bold.
Be inquisitive.
Be transformed.
Discover everything you need to know about becoming an MRU student.
Study at MRU
Learn about the additional supports and services we have available specifically for:
Indigenous students
International students
Learn about the additional supports and services we have available specifically for:
Indigenous students
International students
Positively impacting the lives of children and youth
MRU alumna shares how finding the right program made all the difference
Read more
Indigenous twin motivational speakers find their voice
MRU students Jody and Judy Bear share messages of resilience, healing
Read more
Sootsiman project shares knowledge and culture
Indigenous-inspired experience in Maker & Media Commons space
Read more
Take the next steps to become a Mount Royal student
Application process
Sign up for an info session
Apply now
Faculty of Healthy, Community and Education
Mount Royal is pleased to offer the Bachelor of Child Studies degree, including majors in Child and Youth Care Counsellor and
Early Learning and Child Care
.
Learn more
Virtual Information Sessions
Select a session that suits you. Choose from general information, specific by program, drop in Q&A, or attend an Indigenous or international student session.
Sign-up