Link: https://www.mtroyal.ca/ProgramsCourses/FacultiesSchoolsCentres/HealthCommunityEducation/Programs/PhysicalLiteracy/index.htm

Toggle navigation
Programs
& Courses
Programs & Courses Home
Programs Offered
Collaborative Degrees
International Designated Programs
Continuing Education
The Conservatory
Faculties/Schools/Centres
General Education
Community Service Learning
Course Listings
About
Fast Facts
Equity, Diversity and Inclusion
Indigenization and Decolonization
Institutional Research & Planning
Teaching & Learning
Giving to Mount Royal
Alumni
Media Room
Marketing & Communications
Governance & Leadership
Explore campus
Parking & Transportation
Sustainable MRU
Apply
Admission
Admission Home
Apply
Admission Requirements
Transcripts for Admission
Viewbook
Dates & Deadlines
Financing Your Education
Guidance Counsellors
Campus Tours
Open House
Admission Information Sessions
Contact Us
Academic
Support
Academic Support Home
Academic Calendar
Advising
Resources & Services
Office of the Registrar
Campus
Services
Campus Services Home
A-Z Services
Getting Involved
Recreation
Cougar Athletics
Campus Resources
Facilities Management
Iniskim Centre
Residence Services
Safety & Risk
Employee Wellness
Wellness Services
Dating, Domestic & Sexual Violence
Library
Library Home
Find & Borrow
Help With...
Spaces
About
Ask Us
My Library Account
Hours
Research
Research Home
Centre for Community Disaster Research
Centre for Health and Innovation in Aging
Institute for Community Prosperity
Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Miistakis Institute
QriTical Research Hub
Trico Changemakers Studio
Careers
Students & Alumni
Work at MRU
HR
Physical Literacy
Bachelor of Health and Physical Education (BHPE)
4 years
Learn how to apply
Program highlights
Work placement opportunity
Practical experience
— put classroom theory into practice to gain the valuable skills that will support you later on in your career.
PL Connector Newsletter
— gain continuous support in your field with this resource for growth and development
Movers and shakers
— discover how these grads' careers were shaped by the program.
Research highlights
— expand your studies in topics like nutrition knowledge of Canadians, physical activity and nutrition in the treatment of spinal stenosis, the use of supplements in Albertan youth athletes and more.
Student Society of Health and Physical Education
— connect and engage in the communities of Health and Physical Education at Mount Royal and beyond.
Watch an intro to Physical Literacy
Physical literacy is a holistic approach to health and wellness. The construct focuses on individuals’ motivation, confidence and physical competence while developing knowledge and understanding so they can pursue physical activity throughout their lives. It is much more than participating in sports and physical activity — it's about leading others, and ourselves, to live an active and healthy lifestyle. The skills and knowledge you will acquire in this program will provide you with a well-rounded education that will expand your career choices or education options at a graduate or professional school level.
The Physical Literacy major is designed to meet the Physical Education accreditation requirements of the
Canadian Council of Undergraduate Physical Education and Kinesiology Administrators (CCUPEKA)
, the body that ensures quality and consistency in physical education degrees in Canada.
Career possibilities
Physical literacy coordinator
Personal fitness trainer
Health educator
Health data scientist
Sport consultant
Physiotherapist or occupational therapist*
Physical education teacher*
Health policy consultant
* additional education, experience and/or training required
Admission requirements and costs
Curriculum and courses
Questions?
Information about program offerings, admission requirements and the application process can be answered by an admissions and recruitment specialist.
Contact us
Be bold.
Be inquisitive.
Be transformed.
Discover everything you need to know about becoming an MRU student.
Study at MRU
Learn about the additional supports and services we have available specifically for:
Indigenous students
International students
Learn about the additional supports and services we have available specifically for:
Indigenous students
International students
Steps forward in undergraduate research
Physical Literacy students make impact on the future of physiology
Read more
What Olympic athletes can teach us about physical literacy
MRU’s health and physical education faculty break it down
Read more
From MRU to the NBA
Alumnus Noah Lewis’ journey working in sport
Read more
Take the next steps to become a Mount Royal student
Application process
Sign up for an info session
Apply now
Faculty of Health, Community and Education
Mount Royal is pleased to offer four Bachelor of Health and Physical Education degrees, including majors in
Athletic Therapy
,
Ecotourism and Outdoor Leadership
, Physical Literacy, and
Sport and Recreation Management
.
Learn more
Virtual Information Sessions
Select a session that suits you. Choose from general information, specific by program, drop in Q&A, or attend an Indigenous or international student session.
Sign-up