Link: https://www.mtroyal.ca/ProgramsCourses/FacultiesSchoolsCentres/InternationalEducation/languages/EnglishasanAdditionalLanguage/index.htm

Toggle navigation
Programs
& Courses
Programs & Courses Home
Programs Offered
Collaborative Degrees
International Designated Programs
Continuing Education
The Conservatory
Faculties/Schools/Centres
General Education
Community Service Learning
Course Listings
About
Fast Facts
Equity, Diversity and Inclusion
Indigenization and Decolonization
Institutional Research & Planning
Teaching & Learning
Giving to Mount Royal
Alumni
Media Room
Marketing & Communications
Governance & Leadership
Explore campus
Parking & Transportation
Sustainable MRU
Apply
Admission
Admission Home
Apply
Admission Requirements
Transcripts for Admission
Viewbook
Dates & Deadlines
Financing Your Education
Guidance Counsellors
Campus Tours
Open House
Admission Information Sessions
Contact Us
Academic
Support
Academic Support Home
Academic Calendar
Advising
Resources & Services
Office of the Registrar
Campus
Services
Campus Services Home
A-Z Services
Getting Involved
Recreation
Cougar Athletics
Campus Resources
Facilities Management
Iniskim Centre
Residence Services
Safety & Risk
Employee Wellness
Wellness Services
Dating, Domestic & Sexual Violence
Library
Library Home
Find & Borrow
Help With...
Spaces
About
Ask Us
My Library Account
Hours
Research
Research Home
Centre for Community Disaster Research
Centre for Health and Innovation in Aging
Institute for Community Prosperity
Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Miistakis Institute
QriTical Research Hub
Trico Changemakers Studio
Careers
Students & Alumni
Work at MRU
HR
Learn English for Academic Purposes (LEAP)
Full-time English Language Program
Starting at 13 weeks, maximum of 15 months
Learn how to apply
Program highlights
Accredited by
Languages Canada
— learn from TESL certified and experienced instructors
International Student Support Centre
― a space where you can access immigration information, meet other students, study and take part in activities
Safe and welcoming campus community
— get full access to MRU services, including
Recreation
and
Wellness Services
Hands-on learning experience
— small class sizes help you get to know your instructors and classmates
Foundational Learning Assistance Program
funding available for domestic students
Listen to our IELTS podcast interview to learn how MRU supports international students
Mount Royal’s Learn English for Academic Purposes (LEAP) program offers high quality English language instruction to help you develop the language skills for success in academic settings or future career prospects. Learn from our expert Teaching English as a Second Language (TESL) certified instructors in different classes throughout the week.
LEAP courses
focus on a range of English language skills as they are used in academic studies, including speaking, reading, listening, writing, grammar, fluency and pronunciation. The program is made up of a combination of in-person, on-campus classes and online learning.
LEAP is for low intermediate to advanced level English language learners. The recommended minimum language level for success in the program is CLB 4 or an IELTS score of 3.5.
LEAP levels
There are four levels of LEAP, beginning with a low intermediate level and progressing through to an advanced level. The level of LEAP you start at depends on your English level at the time of entering the program and is determined by a
placement test
.
LEAP 1
Successful completion of LEAP 1 allows you to enrol in LEAP 2.
LEAP 2
Successful completion of LEAP 2 allows you to enrol in LEAP 3.
LEAP 3
Successful completion of LEAP 3 allows you to enrol in LEAP 4.
LEAP 3 students can register for Academic Upgrading courses and Open Studies courses.
LEAP 4
LEAP 4 students can register for Academic Upgrading courses and Open Studies courses.
Successful completion of LEAP 4 meets
MRU’s English Language Proficiency Requirement
for degree, diploma and certificate programs.
Time to complete program
Each level of LEAP is completed over a 13-week term. Your overall time spent in the LEAP program is determined by the level you begin at. For example, if you start at LEAP 1 then it will take 15 months (four 13-week terms) to complete the program.
Benefits of taking LEAP at Mount Royal
LEAP offers a diverse classroom experience with students in the program coming from over 30 different countries.
Small class sizes help support your learning and allow you to get to know your instructors and classmates.
MRU Residence
housing options make it easy to find a place to stay during the program.
Classes are taught using a university-style delivery model so you are better prepared for further education.
LEAP uses innovative teaching methods and campus technology to add to your learning experience.
Get started on prerequisites for MRU academic programs.
Admission and testing
Curriculum and costs
Questions?
Information about program offerings, admission requirements and the application process can be answered by the LEAP team.
Contact us
Be bold.
Be inquisitive.
Be transformed.
Discover everything you need to know about becoming an MRU student.
Study at MRU
Learn about the additional supports and services we have available specifically for:
Indigenous students
International students
Learn about the additional supports and services we have available specifically for:
Indigenous students
International students
Language education helps nurse reach goals
LEAP graduate from Colombia pursues master's degree
Read more
LEAP leads to Bachelor of Education
French student from Congo enrols in degree program at MRU
Read more
IELTS podcast interview
Learn how Mount Royal supports international students
Read more
Take the next steps to become a LEAP student
Find an authorized agent
Take an English quiz
Apply now
Learn English for Academic Purposes Program
Mount Royal offers other English language courses in the Learn English for Academic Purposes Program.
Learn more