Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/accounting/

Back to Degree Finder
Accounting
Carson College of Business
Department of Accounting
Learn how to analyze data to solve problems, detect fraud, maximize the value of a firm, and keep businesses running smoothly.
Campuses:
Pullman
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Doctorate
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
One of seven accounting programs in the Pacific Northwest to be accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB)
Participate in the IRS VITA program, where you’ll gain professional experience and give back to the community by providing free tax assistance to low income individuals
Dedicated accounting career advisor to help you with career exploration, resume and cover letter preparation, networking, mock interviews, introductions to recruiters and more
Department-organized events that bring dozens of accounting firms and major companies like Amazon, Starbucks, and Costco to help you network and secure internships
Student clubs including WSU’s chapter of
Beta Alpha Psi,
an international scholastic and professional organization for future financial information professionals, host meetings with industry professionals and provide mentoring and community service opportunities for members
Career
With an Accounting degree, you can work in:
Public accounting like audit, tax, and consulting
Industries like tech and start-up companies, financial services, manufacturing, and retailing
Government and nonprofit agencies, such as the IRS
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Accounting
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Business Administration
Pullman
Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration: Accounting
Pullman
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Entrepreneurship
International Business
Management
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Aging Business Management
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

