Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/animal-sciences/

Back to Degree Finder
Animal Sciences
College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences
Department of Animal Sciences
Learn about the biological systems of animals, their behavior and well-being, and husbandry, setting you up for a career in caring for and studying animals.
Campuses:
Pullman
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Only four-year animal sciences degree offered in the state of Washington
Benefit from the program’s close relationship with the
WSU College of Veterinary Medicine
Hands-on experience in the department’s dairy, beef, swine, horse, aquaculture, and companion animal centers
Research laboratories, livestock centers, and other facilities
available on campus
Participate in undergraduate research guided by renowned faculty
Specializations
Animal Science, Technology, and Production
focuses on the business, economic, and science- based practical management of animal production and the care of animals.
Pre-Veterinary Medicine
emphasizes basic science courses and is recommended for students planning to attend graduate school, apply to the professional program leading to the Doctor of Veterinary Medicine, or work in technical or specialized areas of animal science.
Career
With an Animal Sciences degree, you can work in:
Biotechnology
Farm and ranch management
Environmental sustainability
Animal welfare and behavior
Food safety
Agribusiness
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Animal Sciences
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Science Animal Sciences
Pullman
Master's
Master of Science in Animal Sciences
Pullman
Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy in Animal Sciences
Pullman
Doctor of Veterinary Medicine
Pullman
Minor
Animal Sciences
Pullman
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Agricultural Biotechnology
Agricultural Education
Agricultural and Food Business Economics
Agricultural Technology and Production Management
Field Crop Management
Food Science
Fruit and Vegetable Management
Human Nutrition and Food Systems
Landscape, Nursery, and Greenhouse Management
Organic and Sustainable Agriculture
Turfgrass Management
Viticulture and Enology
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

