Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/apparel-merchandising-design-and-textiles/

Back to Degree Finder
Apparel, Merchandising, Design and Textiles
College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences
Department of Apparel, Merchandising, Design, and Textiles
Learn how to develop apparel, textile, and fashion products from concept to consumer in a global market, with a foundation in industry practices and business principles.
Campuses:
Pullman
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Master's
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Largest and most comprehensive 4-year apparel and textile program in the Pacific Northwest
Fully equipped apparel design studios, a visual merchandising studio, photo studio, apparel tech and digital lab, and textile teaching and research lab
Work closely with nationally and internationally recognized faculty
Industry study tours and opportunities to study abroad
Specializations
Apparel Design
focuses on design fundamentals, illustration and presentation methods, computer aided design, tailoring and garment construction techniques, fashion forecasting, and more.
Merchandising
teaches you the planning, buying, shipping, and selling of merchandise in manufacturing, trade, or retail organizations.
Career
With an Apparel, Merchandising, Design and Textiles degree, you can work in:
Apparel and textile design
Pattern making
Fashion illustration and graphic design
Wardrobe consulting
Retail management and entrepreneurship
Market analysis
Visual merchandising
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Apparel, Merchandising, Design and Textiles
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Apparel, Merchandising, Design and Textiles
Pullman
Master's
Apparel, Merchandising, Design and Textiles
Pullman
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Architectural Studies
Art
Digital Technology and Culture
Interior Design
Landscape Architecture
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

