Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/art/

Back to Degree Finder
Art
College of Arts and Sciences
Department of Art
Learn interdisciplinary approaches to the practice of art and the study of visual culture as you bring your own ideas to life.
Campuses:
Pullman
Tri-Cities
Vancouver
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Certificate
Master's
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Access to seasonal programming and the permanent collection of the
Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art at WSU
, one of the top five museums in the Pacific Northwest, at WSU Pullman
Forst Visiting Artist Endowment brings diverse artists to campus for interactive residencies each semester
Facilities for metal and wood fabrication, ceramics, printmaking, black-and-white photography, and digital media
Faculty are internationally recognized contemporary artists and scholars
Internship and study abroad opportunities
Specializations
Art History
focuses on the history of art from various cultures and historical time periods, art criticism, and contemporary theory.
Graphic Arts and Integrated Design
focuses on visual literacy and collaboration and directed experiences in printmaking, photography, digital media, illustration, drawing, and fabrication.
Studio
focuses on visual skills and knowledge of material practices, such as printmaking, ceramics, digital media, drawing, painting, photography, and sculpture
Career
With an Art degree, you can work in:
Graphic design and multimedia art
Studio art and photography
Museum and gallery curation and appraisal
Archives and conservation
Public arts and nonprofit art programs
Film, video, and sound production
Education
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Art
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Art
Pullman
Tri-Cities
Fine Arts
Pullman
Master's
Master of Fine Arts
Pullman
Minor
Art
Pullman
Tri-Cities
Vancouver
Art History
Pullman
Exhibition Studies
Pullman
Certificate
Business of Art
Pullman
Eco-Arts and Public Engagement
Pullman
Graphic Design
Pullman
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Architectural Studies
Digital Technology and Culture
Interior Design
Landscape Architecture
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

