Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/bioengineering/

Back to Degree Finder
Bioengineering
Voiland College of Engineering and Architecture
Gene and Linda Voiland School of Chemical Engineering and Bioengineering
Through the study of biology and engineering, you’ll learn how to devise innovative solutions to today’s most pressing healthcare challenges.
Campuses:
Pullman
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
More than 80% of students participate in undergraduate research or industrial internships
Diverse undergraduate program with women representing more than 50% of graduates
Senior capstone course integrates entrepreneurship and governmental regulation, enabling you to develop your own biotechnology startups
Access to a variety of laboratories on campus for hands-on learning and interdisciplinary collaboration
Graduates will be ready to obtain a Professional Engineering license
Award-winning, experienced faculty who collaborate with industry partners
Join WSU’s chapter of the
Biomedical Engineering Society
to network with industry professionals
Specializations
Biomedical Systems
focuses on the design and integration of complex systems, devices, and computational models to improve healthcare diagnostics, treatment, and patient outcomes. You’ll be prepared to pursue careers in medical diagnostic device engineering, prosthetics, health informatics, and biomedical instrumentation.
Cellular and Molecular Bioengineering
integrates the principles of biology and engineering to manipulate and study molecules and cells, aiming to develop new technologies and therapies for understanding and treating biological and medical challenges. You’ll be prepared to pursue careers in protein and tissue engineering, pharmaceuticals, synthetic biology, and cellular therapies.
Career
With a Bioengineering degree, you can:
Make replacement artificial organs
Design next-generation prosthetics
Design novel, safe, and effective therapies
Push frontiers of diagnostic technologies
Design advanced medical equipment
Bring together nanotechnology, computer science, and medicine
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Bioengineering
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Bioengineering: Biomedical Systems
Pullman
Bioengineering: Cellular and Molecular
Pullman
Bioengineering: Pre-Med
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Chemical Engineering
Civil Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Construction Engineering
Construction Management
Cybersecurity
Electrical Engineering
Materials Science and Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

