Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/biology/

Back to Degree Finder
Biology
College of Arts and Sciences
School of Biological Sciences
With a basis in evolutionary diversity, global ecology, and molecular, cellular, and physiological processes, you’ll study life from prehistoric times to the modern day to predict how life may change in the future.
Campuses:
Global Campus (Online)
Pullman
Spokane
Tri-Cities
Vancouver
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Certificate
Doctorate
Graduate Certificate
Master's
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Participate in undergraduate research, both in the field and the laboratory, guided by renowned faculty
A variety of facilities on the Pullman campus, including the
Conner Museum of Natural History
, the
Marion Ownbey Herbarium,
and the
rooftop Abelson greenhouse
, which offer specimens of animals and plants for research and study
Owen Science and Engineering Library
, housed on the Pullman campus, is the largest of its kind in the Pacific Northwest
Join a math, science, and engineering residence hall in Pullman, where you can study with your neighbors, get free tutoring, and use the hall’s computer lab
Specializations
Basic Medical Sciences
prepares you for pre-professional programs in health sciences. (Pullman | Vancouver | Tri-Cities | Global)
Ecology & Evolutionary Biology
focuses on environmental and wildlife biology. (Pullman)
Entomology
focuses on insect biology. (Pullman)
General Biology
allows you to shape your own programs of study based on your interests. (Pullman | Vancouver | Tri-Cities | Global)
Plant Biology
prepares you for a career in plant sciences. (Pullman)
Pre-Physical and Occupational Therapy and Pre-Physician’s Assistant
specializations provide specific preparation for professional programs in these fields. (Pullman)
Teaching
prepares you for a teaching career in secondary education in biology and related sciences. (Pullman)
Career
With a Biology degree, you can work in:
Pharmacology, nutrition, and dietetics
Veterinary medicine and animal care
Fisheries and wildlife ecology
Ecological restoration
Biotechnology and genetic engineering
Forensics and pathology
Science education
Science writing and journalism
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Biology
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Biology
Pullman
Vancouver
Tri-Cities
Global Campus (Online)
Master's
Master of Science in Biology
Pullman
Tri-Cities
Master of Science in Plant Biology
Pullman
Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy in Biology
Pullman
Doctor of Philosophy in Plant Biology
Pullman
Graduate Certificate
Bioinformatics
Pullman
Spokane
Vancouver
Tri-Cities
Minor
Biology
Pullman
Vancouver
Tri-Cities
Certificate
Quantitative Biology
Pullman
Vancouver
Biology Teaching Certification
Pullman
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Biochemistry
General Science
Human Biology
Microbiology
Neuroscience
Zoology
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

