Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/chemistry/

Back to Degree Finder
Chemistry
College of Arts and Sciences
Department of Chemistry
Through study of the nature and characteristics of substances and the changes they undergo, you’ll learn the building blocks of all materials.
Campuses:
Pullman
Tri-Cities
Vancouver
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Certificate
Doctorate
Master's
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
One of the premier research programs in nuclear and radiochemistry
Facilities and laboratories provide hands-on experience
Participate in undergraduate research guided by renowned faculty
Owen Science and Engineering Library
, housed on the Pullman campus, is the largest of its kind in the Pacific Northwest
Join a math, science, and engineering residence hall in Pullman, where you can study with your neighbors, get free tutoring, and use the hall’s computer lab
Chemistry Learning Center
offers tutoring and study support for all general and organic chemistry students on the Pullman campus
Specializations
Materials Chemistry
focuses on the structure and properties of materials. (Pullman)
Professional Chemistry
prepares students for a career in chemistry. (Pullman)
Standard Chemistry
is a flexible pathway with options for interdisciplinary learning and pursuit of a secondary major. (Pullman)
Teaching
prepares you for a teaching career in secondary education in chemistry and related sciences. (Pullman)
Career
With a Chemistry degree, you can work in:
Medical professions
Science teaching
Chemical engineering
Industrial research and development
Research chemistry
Sales, marketing, and technical service
Forensic science
Science writing
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Chemistry
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Chemistry
Pullman
Vancouver
Master's
Master of Science in Chemistry
Pullman
Tri-Cities
Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy in Chemistry
Pullman
Graduate Certificate
Radiation Protection
Pullman
Tri-Cities
Minor
Chemistry
Pullman
Vancouver
Certificate
Chemistry Teaching Certification
Pullman
Reactor Operator Training Certificate
Pullman
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Biochemistry
Chemical Engineering
Data Analytics
Food Science
General Science
Mathematics
Physics
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

