Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/chemical-engineering/

Back to Degree Finder
Chemical Engineering
Voiland College of Engineering and Architecture
Gene and Linda Voiland School of Chemical Engineering and Bioengineering
To meet global needs for clean, sustainable energy and environmental remediation and maintenance, you’ll learn how to design and develop new chemical plants and products and improve and maintain existing chemical plants.
Campuses:
Pullman
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Doctorate
Master's
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Gain hands-on experience engineering the next generation of clean energy in state-of-the-art industrial laboratories
Senior capstone design course pairs you with regional, national, and international chemical engineering firms to solve real-world challenges
More than 80% of students participate in undergraduate research or industrial internships
The
Bioproducts, Sciences, and Engineering Laboratory
on the Tri-Cities campus fosters collaboration between students and scientists from the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory
Join WSU’s chapter of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE) to develop professional skills and connect with future employers
Graduates will be ready to obtain a Professional Engineering license
Award-winning, experienced faculty who collaborate with industry partners
Career
With a Chemical Engineering degree, you can work in:
Energy production
Transportation
Environmental protection
Electronics
Computing
Medicine
Consulting
Policymaking or government
Technical marketing and sales
Plant management
Research and teaching
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Chemical Engineering
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Chemical Engineering
Pullman
Master's
Master of Science in Chemical Engineering
Pullman
Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy in Chemical Engineering
Pullman
Minor
Chemical Engineering
Pullman
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Bioengineering
Civil Engineering
Computer Engineering
Construction Engineering
Construction Management
Cybersecurity
Electrical Engineering
Materials Science and Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

