Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/civil-engineering/

Back to Degree Finder
Civil Engineering
Voiland College of Engineering and Architecture
Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering
Learn how to plan, design, construct, and operate facilities and systems that are essential to modern life and infrastructure, such as bridges, highways, airports, dams, waste treatment, and more.
Campuses:
Global Campus (Online)
Pullman
Tri-Cities
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Certificate
Doctorate
Graduate Certificate
Master's
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Hands-on, experience-focused curriculum
High job-placement rates at all degree levels
Senior capstone design course gives you direct engineering experience before graduation
Award-winning and engaging faculty who collaborate with industry and government partners
Graduates will be ready to obtain a Professional Engineering license
Join WSU’s chapter of the
American Society of Civil Engineers
to network with professionals, attend regional or national conferences, and participate in contests
Career
With a Civil Engineering degree, you can work in:
Architectural and engineering firms
Oil and natural resource industries
Consulting firms
Environmental remediation and cleanup
Utility companies
Telecommunications businesses
Aerospace manufacturing companies
Government and nonprofit agencies
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Civil Engineering
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Civil Engineering
Pullman
Tri-Cities
Master's
Master of Engineering in Civil Engineering
Global Campus (Online)
Master of Science in Civil Engineering
Pullman
Master of Science in Environmental Engineering
Pullman
Tri-Cities
Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy in Civil Engineering
Pullman
Tri-Cities
Graduate Certificate
Constraints Management
Global Campus (Online)
Industrial Leadership
Global Campus (Online)
Project Management
Global Campus (Online)
Quality Management
Global Campus (Online)
Systems Engineering Management
Global Campus (Online)
Supply Chain Management
Global Campus (Online)
Certificate
Low Impact Development Training
Global Campus (Online)
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Bioengineering
Chemical Engineering
Computer Engineering
Construction Engineering
Construction Management
Cybersecurity
Electrical Engineering
Materials Science and Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

