Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/comparative-ethnic-studies/

Back to Degree Finder
Comparative Ethnic Studies
College of Arts and Sciences
School of Languages, Cultures, and Race
Study the stories and experiences of communities of color to understand the historical forces and social dynamics of racism and racial inequality worldwide.
Campuses:
Global Campus (Online)
Pullman
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Certificate
Doctorate
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Diverse and flexible curriculum allows you to examine a particular community or prepare for a career
Work with a faculty mentor on independent studies, special projects, and career exploration
Scholars and activists visit campus, offering engaged learning opportunities
Study abroad, internship and fieldwork opportunities let you apply your knowledge and gain experience
Career
With a
Comparative Ethnic Studies
degree, you can work in:
Social work and counseling
University-level teaching and research
Community development
Human resources
Nonprofit or government agencies
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Comparative Ethnic Studies
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Comparative Ethnic Studies
Pullman
Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy in American Studies and Culture
Pullman
Minor
Comparative Ethnic Studies
Pullman
Global Studies
Pullman
Popular Culture
Pullman
Certificate
American Indian Studies
Pullman
Global Campus (Online)
Race and Ethnicity in the Corporate World
Pullman
Vancouver
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Anthropology
Criminal Justice and Criminology
History
Human Biology
Political Science
Social Sciences
Psychology
Social Studies
Sociology
Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

