Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/data-analytics/

Back to Degree Finder
Data Analytics
College of Arts and Sciences
Program in Data Analytics
Learn the tools and techniques to create, manage, and exploit big datasets, extract information, and develop predictive models used by many different industries to make better decisions.
Campuses:
Everett
Global Campus (Online)
Pullman
Vancouver
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Multidisciplinary curriculum allows you to customize your degree
Learning labs equipped with modern security-focused hardware and software systems and cloud-based solutions
Senior capstone project with an industry sponsor allows you to apply your skills collaboratively
Curriculum provides a solid technical background in math, science, and engineering
Industry and university partnerships provide networking and internship opportunities
Join a math, science, and engineering residence hall, where you can study with your neighbors, get free tutoring, and use the hall’s computer lab
Specializations
Actuarial Science (Pullman | Everett | Vancouver) focuses on risk assessment and asset and investment management.
Business (Pullman | Everett | Global | Vancouver) focuses on management consulting, data architecture, market research, and supply chain management.
Computation (Pullman) focuses on large-scale data analytics and architectures and high-performance computing.
Data Visualization (Pullman | Vancouver) focuses on the representation of data through graphics like charts, plots, animations and more.
Economics (Pullman) focuses on forecasting, auction design, and e-commerce optimization.
Environmental Systems (Pullman) focuses on geospatial analysis with geology, soil science, plant science, and ecology.
General (Pullman | Everett | Global | Vancouver) offers you the flexibility to focus on the topics you’re interested in.
Life Sciences (Pullman) focuses on bioinformatics and biomedical research and development.
Physical Sciences (Pullman) focuses on cheminformatics, computational chemistry, and product and process development.
Social Sciences (Pullman) focuses on adaptive learning, policy research, psychometrics, and program evaluation.
Career
With a Data Analytics degree, you can work in:
Data science and database management
Risk assessment and investment management
Geographic information systems and precision agriculture
Management consulting and market research
E-commerce
Education
Biomedical research and development
Cryptography
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Data Analytics
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Data Analytics
Pullman
Vancouver
Everett
Global Campus (Online)
Graduate Certificate
Responsible Data Science and Analytics
Global Campus (Online)
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Chemistry
Computer Science
General Science
Mathematics
Physics
Social Sciences
Sociology
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

