Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/digital-technology-and-culture/

Back to Degree Finder
Digital Technology and Culture
College of Arts and Sciences
Department of Digital Technology and Culture
Through a historical, rhetorical, and cultural understanding of digital media, this program combines creative production and critical exploration to prepare you to communicate both locally and on a global stage.
Campuses:
Pullman
Tri-Cities
Vancouver
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Certificate
Graduate Certificate
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Interdisciplinary courses explore global changes brought by digital media
Get hands-on experience putting your ideas into action through speech, and both visual and written forms
Community-based learning allows you to develop digital media products in a collaborative environment for community organizations
Use the latest technology for designing and distributing digital works
Specializations
Creative Media and Digital Culture
(Vancouver) focuses on web design and development, digital publishing, social media and SEO strategy, virtual and augmented reality, and more.
Digital Cinema, Sound, and Animation
(Pullman) focuses on moving image creation and critical commentary through the examination of the history, production, and cultural impact of technologies like sound, film, and animation.
Digital Design
(Pullman | Tri-Cities)
focuses on visual communication and adaptive design for diverse communities, including graphic and multimedia design, content creation, and information visualization.
Game Studies
and Design
(Pullman) focuses on the histories and theories associated with interactive media and video games
Web Design and Development
(Pullman) focuses on web design, web coding, user experience, content management, information architecture, accessibility, and more.
Career
With a Digital Technology and Culture degree, you can work in:
Graphic design
Social media consulting
Web development and information architecture
Media production
Game design
Data visualization
Internet marketing
Editing and publishing
Animation
Project management
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Digital Technology and Culture
Pullman
Vancouver
Tri-Cities
Graduate Certificate
Digital Humanities and Culture
Pullman
Minor
Digital Technology and Culture
Pullman
Vancouver
Tri-Cities
Film Studies
Pullman
Vancouver
Certificate
Game Studies & Design
Pullman
Vancouver
Graphic Design
Pullman
Social Media
Vancouver
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Architectural Studies
Art
Comparative Ethnic Studies
English
Interior Design
Landscape Architecture
Journalism and Media Production
Music
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

