Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/economic-sciences/

Back to Degree Finder
Economic Sciences
College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences
School of Economic Sciences
Using rigorous methods of analysis, you’ll learn how the decision making of consumers and businesses, the ability of markets to allocate resources, and the impact of government policy affects the economy.
Campuses:
Global Campus (Online)
Pullman
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Doctorate
Master's
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Learn economic systems in a rigorous, flexible study of basic problem solving and data analytical methods
Make valuable internship and career connections through WSU’s active network of faculty, alumni, and business professionals
Participate in undergraduate research guided by renowned faculty
Specializations
Agricultural Economics
focuses on economic issues related to food and fiber supply and demand and the natural resource base that supports agricultural production.
Business Economics
trains you to use economic concepts to better understand the management, marketing, labor, and finance problems faced by businesses operating in a market system.
Economics, Policy and Law
teaches you the analytical skills used in law school and policymaking including those relevant in tax, law, regulation, program, and policy arenas.
Environmental and Resource Economics
trains you to make decisions while weighing the trade-offs between protecting, restoring, developing, and allocating natural resources.
Financial Markets
provides you with analytical and quantitative training in the overlap between economics and finance.
International Economics and Development
provides you with an understanding of how policies, institutions and endowments influence physical, human, and natural capital accumulation which leads to the emergence of poor and rich communities and countries.
Quantitative Economics
gives you the skills to understand and use more advanced statistical and mathematical models, preparing you for careers involving data analytics or for advanced degrees.
Career
With an Economic Sciences degree, you can work in:
Agribusiness and food business management
Alternative energy policy
Business and economic forecasting
Consumer behavior
Environmental damage assessment and management
Labor market analysis
Policy and law
Water resource management
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Economic Sciences
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Economic Sciences
Pullman
Global Campus (Online)
Master's
Master of Science in Economics
Pullman
Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy in Economics
Pullman
Minor
Agribusiness Economics
Pullman
Business Economics
Pullman
Economics Minor
Pullman
Environmental and Resource Economics and Management
Pullman
Sustainable Development
Pullman
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Agricultural and Food Business Economics
Data Analytics
Finance
International Business
Marketing
Political Science
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

