Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/electrical-engineering/

Back to Degree Finder
Electrical Engineering
Voiland College of Engineering and Architecture
School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Learn the application of mathematical and physical principles to a wide variety of electrical, electronic, or computer-based devices and systems.
Campuses:
Everett
Global Campus (Online)
Pullman
Tri-Cities
Vancouver
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Doctorate
Graduate Certificate
Master's
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Curriculum has a foundation in both theory and hands-on learning
Laboratory facilities allow you to study computer systems, high voltage systems, wireless communications, signal processing, circuits, and more
Work with faculty in research on microelectronics, electromagnetics, communications and signal processing, integrated circuit design, and more
Industry and university partnerships provide networking and internship opportunities
Graduates will be ready to obtain a Professional Engineering license
Join a math, science, and engineering residence hall on the Pullman campus, where you can study with your neighbors, get free tutoring, and use the hall’s computer lab
Career
With an Electrical Engineering degree, you can work in:
Power systems
Electromagnetics
Systems and control
Solid state electronics
Communications and signal processing
Radio frequency engineering
Aerospace engineering
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Electrical Engineering
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Electrical Engineering
Pullman
Vancouver
Tri-Cities
Everett
Master's
Master of Science in Electrical Engineering
Pullman
Vancouver
Tri-Cities
Professional Science Masters in Electrical Power Engineering
Global Campus (Online)
Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy in Electrical and Computer Engineering
Pullman
Graduate Certificate
Constraints Management
Global Campus (Online)
Industrial Leadership
Global Campus (Online)
Project Management
Global Campus (Online)
Quality Management
Global Campus (Online)
Systems Engineering Management
Global Campus (Online)
Supply Chain Management
Global Campus (Online)
Minor
Electrical Engineering
Pullman
Vancouver
Tri-Cities
Everett
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Bioengineering
Chemical Engineering
Civil Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Construction Engineering
Construction Management
Cybersecurity
Materials Science and Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

