Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/entrepreneurship/

Back to Degree Finder
Entrepreneurship
Carson College of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Entrepreneurship
Center for Entrepreneurial Studies
Learn innovation, risk-taking, and leadership skills to start your own business, work with startup companies, or revitalize established commercial or nonprofit organizations.
Campuses:
Global Campus (Online)
Pullman
Vancouver
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Master's
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Programs based in accounting, marketing, and finance, with the option to select courses from other disciplines like engineering or communication
The
Den Student Collaboration Center,
home to the Center for Entrepreneurship, a collaborative space in Pullman where you can host or attend small meetings, events, and workshops
The annual
WSU Business Plan Competition
, where you and other students can test out a venture
Carson Business Solutions,
a student consultancy that pairs student teams with small businesses and nonprofits, offering more than 700 hours of free consulting services each year
Career
With an Entrepreneurship degree, you can work in:
Business management
Small business
Family business
Tech and start-up companies
Consulting
Marketing, sales, or advertising
Government and nonprofit agencies
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Entrepreneurship
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Business Administration
Pullman
Master's
Master of Business Administration
Global Campus (Online)
Executive Master of Business Administration
Global Campus (Online)
Minor
Entrepreneurship Minor
Pullman
Vancouver
Certificate
Honors and Business Innovation and Leadership Experience (HABILE)
Pullman
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Accounting
International Business
Management
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Aging Business Management
Finance
Hospitality Business Management
Wine and Beverage Business Management
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

