Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/field-crop-management/

Back to Degree Finder
Field Crop Management
College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences
Integrated Plant Sciences Program
Learn plant, soil, and pest management to improve crop production and prepare for a career in agronomy—the study of how plants can be grown and modified to benefit society.
Campuses:
Global Campus (Online)
Pullman
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Doctorate
Master's
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
The
Cook Agronomy Farm,
founded to help growers in high-precipitation areas of the Inland Northwest make the transition to no-till farming
Greenhouses, farms, research centers, and other facilities
available on campus and throughout the state
Participate in undergraduate research guided by renowned faculty
Blend of classroom instruction and hands-on field experience
Career
With a Field Crop Management degree, you can work in:
Government agencies like the USDA or EPA
Production and seed marketing
Crop insurance
Laboratory research
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Field Crop Management
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Integrated Plant Sciences
Pullman
Master's
Master of Science in Agriculture: Plant Health Management
Pullman
Global Campus (Online)
Master of Science in Crop Science
Pullman
Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy in Crop Science
Pullman
Minor
Crop Science
Pullman
Horticulture
Pullman
Soil Science
Pullman
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Agricultural Biotechnology
Agricultural Education
Agricultural and Food Business Economics
Agricultural Technology and Production Management
Animal Sciences
Food Science
Fruit and Vegetable Management
Human Nutrition and Food Systems
Landscape, Nursery, and Greenhouse Management
Organic and Sustainable Agriculture
Turfgrass Management
Viticulture and Enology
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

