Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/food-science/

Back to Degree Finder
Food Science
College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences
School of Food Science
Chemistry, biology, engineering, microbiology, and psychology intersect to form the study of food science. Learn how to provide consumers with safe, delicious, and nutritious foods.
Campuses:
Global Campus (Online)
Pullman
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Doctorate
Master's
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Craft Cougar Gold cheese and ice cream at the
WSU Creamery
as a student employee or through research opportunities
Partnership with the University of Idaho Department of Animal, Veterinary, and Food Sciences leads to more opportunities for collaboration
Participate in undergraduate research guided by renowned faculty
Blend of classroom instruction and hands-on field experience
Career
With a Food Science degree, you can work in:
Research and manufacturing
Production and processing
Quality assurance and control
Sales and marketing
Regulation and enforcement of food laws
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Food Science
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Food Science
Pullman
Master's
Master of Science in Agriculture: Food Science and Management
Pullman
Global Campus (Online)
Master of Science in Food Science
Pullman
Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy in Food Science
Pullman
Minor
Food Science
Pullman
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Agricultural Biotechnology
Agricultural Education
Agricultural and Food Business Economics
Agricultural Technology and Production Management
Animal Sciences
Field Crop Management
Fruit and Vegetable Management
Human Nutrition and Food Systems
Landscape, Nursery, and Greenhouse Management
Organic and Sustainable Agriculture
Turfgrass Management
Viticulture and Enology
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

