Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/hospitality-business-management/

Back to Degree Finder
Hospitality Business Management
Carson College of Business
Department of Hospitality Business Management
With the guidance of faculty with vast industry experience, you’ll master the fundamentals of operating hotels, restaurants, managed services venues, and tourist destinations, whether they’re located in the U.S. or around the world.
Campuses:
Everett
Global Campus (Online)
Pullman
Tri-Cities
Vancouver
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Certificate
Doctorate
Graduate Certificate
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Marriott Foundation Hospitality Teaching Center,
home to a teaching/production kitchen, elegant dining room and wine-tasting area on the Pullman campus
Hospitality Career Previews and Burtenshaw Hospitality Career Night career fairs help you connect with future employers
Study abroad at César Ritz Colleges in Switzerland, a traditional Swiss hospitality school whose Brig campus is the site of the Carson College Switzerland International Center
Internship requirement means you graduate with 1,000 hours in industry experience
Career
With a Hospitality Business Management degree, you can work in:
Operations
Revenue
Sales
Service
Event planning
Consulting
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Hospitality Business Management
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Hospitality Business Management
Pullman
Vancouver
Tri-Cities
Everett
Global Campus (Online)
Master's
Master of Business Administration
Global Campus (Online)
Executive Master of Business Administration
Global Campus (Online)
Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration: Hospitality and Tourism
Pullman
Graduate Certificate
Hospitality and Tourism
Global Campus (Online)
Minor
Hospitality Business Management
Pullman
Tri-Cities
Everett
Vancouver
Event Management
Pullman
Certificate
Certificate in Hospitality and Tourism
Pullman
Culinary Business
Pullman
Tri-Cities
Everett
Global Campus (Online)
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Accounting
Entrepreneurship
Finance
International Business
Management
Management Information Systems
Marketing
Aging Business Management
Wine and Beverage Business Management
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

