Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/human-nutrition-and-food-systems/

Back to Degree Finder
Human Nutrition and Food Systems
College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences
Agricultural and Food Systems Program
Elson S. Floyd College of Medicine
Learn how to produce sustainable, nutrient-rich foods that meet the nutritional needs of a growing global population.
Campuses:
Pullman
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Graduate Certificate
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Partnership between WSU’s College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences and the Elson S. Floyd College of Medicine allows for a wide range of undergraduate research opportunities
Participate in
Optimizing Human Health and Nutrition: From Soil to Society,
a $10 million interdisciplinary project with renowned researchers from WSU, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and other institutions
Greenhouses, farms, research centers, and other facilities
available on campus and throughout the state
Blend of classroom instruction and hands-on field experience
Career
With a Human Nutrition and Food Systems degree, you can work in:
Population health science
Seed production or plant breeding
Soil chemistry, research or management
Crop consulting and research
Government and non-profit agencies
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Human Nutrition and Food Systems
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Agricultural and Food Systems
Pullman
Graduate Certificate
Human Nutrition
Pullman
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Agricultural Biotechnology
Agricultural Education
Agricultural and Food Business Economics
Agricultural Technology and Production Management
Animal Sciences
Field Crop Management
Food Science
Fruit and Vegetable Management
Landscape, Nursery, and Greenhouse Management
Organic and Sustainable Agriculture
Turfgrass Management
Viticulture and Enology
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

