Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/integrated-strategic-communication/

Back to Degree Finder
Integrated Strategic Communication
Edward R. Murrow College of Communication
Department of Strategic Communication
By blending knowledge in advertising with skills in public relations, you’ll learn the importance of audience research, persuasive message design, and delivery strategies to navigate the complex and ever-evolving world of communication.
Campuses:
Everett
Global Campus (Online)
Pullman
Vancouver
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Graduate Certificate
Master's
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Practical experience and internships built into the program help you gain experience and apply your knowledge
Senior capstone course has you produce professional work for a real-world client
Award-winning, experienced faculty and advisors to guide you
Crimson Creative,
a student-run firm where you can work with real clients to develop advertising and public relations campaigns
Join WSU’s chapter of the
Public Relations Student Society of America
to network with public relations professionals and leaders, gain access to professional development opportunities, enter the annual Bateman Case Study Competition, and engage in events and special projects
Murrow Spring Break,
an annual trip to Los Angeles or New York City to visit leading strategic communication agencies and network with industry giants and Murrow alumni
Murrow Center for Student Success
Career Ready
program offers career advising and preparation services
Strong alumni network provides career coaching and mentoring to current students and graduates
Career
With a Strategic Communication degree, you can work in:
Media or investor relations
Journalism
Corporate communications
Public affairs
Public relations
Consulting
Sales, advertising, branding, and promotion
Copywriting
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Integrated Strategic Communication
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Strategic Communication
Vancouver
Global Campus (Online)
Everett
Master's
Master of Arts in Strategic Communication
Global Campus (Online)
Graduate Certificate
Strategic Communication
Global Campus (Online)
Research Communication
Global Campus (Online)
Minor
Communication
Pullman
Vancouver
Global Campus (Online)
Everett
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Broadcast News
Broadcast Production
Journalism and Media Production
Media and Innovation
Multimedia Journalism
Public Relations
Risk and Crisis Communication
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

