Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/japanese/

Back to Degree Finder
Japanese
College of Arts and Sciences
School of Languages, Cultures, and Race
By gaining a proficiency in the Japanese language and intercultural relations, you’ll be ready to work effectively in today’s global and diverse workplace.
Campuses:
Everett
Global Campus (Online)
Pullman
Spokane
Tri-Cities
Vancouver
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Certificate
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
The
Language Learning Resource Center
provides the latest in language learning technology, computers and study tables, TVs with DVD players, and equipment you can check out
Study abroad
with faculty-led programs during spring and summer breaks or by earning course credit at foreign universities
Internship opportunities let you apply your knowledge and gain experience
Career
With a Japanese degree, you can work in:
Translation and interpreting services
Customs and immigration
Law enforcement
Public relations
Business
Teaching
Travel and tourism
Health services
Editing and publishing
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Japanese
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Foreign Languages and Cultures
Pullman
Minor
Japanese
Pullman
Japanese Area and Culture Studies
Pullman
Certificate
Dual Language Pathway
Pullman
Spokane
Tri-Cities
Global Campus (Online)
Everett
Vancouver
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Art
Chinese Language and Culture
Music
History
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

