Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/management-information-systems/

Back to Degree Finder
Management Information Systems
Carson College of Business
Department of Management, Information Systems, and Entrepreneurship
Focusing on the development, maintenance, management, and study of the computer-based information systems that serve organizations, you’ll be prepared to analyze and solve problems, work with people and technology, and take on leadership positions.
Campuses:
Global Campus (Online)
Pullman
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Certificate
Doctorate
Master's
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Business Technology Symposium,
an annual event at the Pullman campus where you can network and exchange ideas with IT industry executives at companies like ESPN, Visa, and Costco
Join the MIS Club, a student group on the Pullman campus that organizes networking events with recruiters and industry professionals
State-of-the-art facilities, including e-classrooms
Award-winning faculty and professional advisors to guide you
Career fairs that connect you with industry experts
Career
With a Management Information Systems degree, you can work in:
Analytics
Aerospace
Cybersecurity
Consulting
E-commerce
Insurance
Healthcare systems
Information technology
Accounting
System administration
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Management Information Systems
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Business Administration
Pullman
Master's
Master of Business Administration
Global Campus (Online)
Executive Master of Business Administration
Global Campus (Online)
Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration: Management Information Systems
Pullman
Certificate
CySER Basics Certificate
Pullman
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Accounting
Entrepreneurship
International Business
Management
Marketing
Aging Business Management
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

