Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/mathematics/

Back to Degree Finder
Mathematics
College of Arts and Sciences
Department of Mathematics and Statistics
Explore the foundations of physical and social sciences research and develop essential skills to apply solutions to real-world problems.
Campuses:
Pullman
Vancouver
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Certificate
Doctorate
Graduate Certificate
Master's
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Get free tutoring at the
Math Learning Center
or become a tutor for other students
Participate in undergraduate research guided by renowned faculty
Owen Science and Engineering Library
, the largest of its kind in the Pacific Northwest
Join a math, science, and engineering residence hall, where you can study with your neighbors, get free tutoring, and use the hall’s computer lab
Specializations
Actuarial Science
focuses on the research, planning, forecasting, and decision-making methods for insurance, pension, and retirement programs.
Applied Mathematics
prepares you to use theories and techniques to formulate and solve practical problems in business, government, engineering, computing, and other sciences.
Mathematics Teaching
prepares you to teach mathematics in secondary education.
Statistics
focuses on the methods for collecting, analyzing, interpreting, and presenting empirical data.
Theoretical Mathematics
focuses on the analytical skills essential for a variety of careers and prepares you for graduate school.
Career
With a Mathematics degree, you can work in:
Mathematics research and education
Statistics
Actuarial science
Computer science
Consulting
Engineering
Business management and finance
Government and nonprofit agencies
Health professions
Law enforcement
Cryptography
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Mathematics
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Mathematics
Pullman
Vancouver
Master's
Master of Science in Mathematics
Pullman
Master of Science in Statistics
Pullman
Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy in Mathematics
Pullman
Doctor of Philosophy in Statistical Science
Pullman
Doctor of Philosophy in Mathematics and Science Education
Pullman
Graduate Certificate
Teaching College Mathematics
Pullman
Vancouver
Minor
Mathematics
Pullman
Statistics
Pullman
Certificate
Mathematics Teaching Certification
Pullman
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Biology
Chemistry
Data Analytics
General Science
Physics
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

