Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/microbiology/

Back to Degree Finder
Microbiology
College of Veterinary Medicine
School of Molecular Biosciences
By studying microorganisms and viruses, you’ll learn how to develop new species with applications in alternative energy production, pharmaceutical science, and more.
Campuses:
Global Campus (Online)
Pullman
Tri-Cities
Vancouver
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Certificate
Doctorate
Graduate Certificate
Master's
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
STARS program
helps you get an early start on a Ph.D. in biochemistry, genetics and cell biology,  microbiology, or neuroscience.
Participate in undergraduate research guided by renowned faculty in fields like antimicrobial resistance, immunology, and virology
Owen Science and Engineering Library
, the largest of its kind in the Pacific Northwest
Join a math, science, and engineering residence hall, where you can study with your neighbors, get free tutoring, and use the hall’s computer lab
Specializations
Medical Technology
focuses on microbiological techniques to diagnose diseases and pathologies related to human-microbe interactions.
Molecular Biology
focuses on the fundamental mechanisms of living cells through approaches from chemistry, physics, and biology.
Career
With a Microbiology degree, you can work in:
Biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries
Water quality and environmental testing
Agricultural and food industries
Private or governmental laboratories
Research and development
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Microbiology
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Microbiology
Pullman
Master's
Master of Science in Molecular Biosciences
Pullman
Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy in Molecular Biosciences
Pullman
Doctor of Philosophy in Molecular Plant Sciences
Pullman
Graduate Certificate
Bioethics
Global Campus (Online)
Professional Molecular Science
Pullman
Global Campus (Online)
Minor
Microbiology
Pullman
Molecular Biology
Pullman
Certificate
Business of Biomedicine
Pullman
Molecular Biosciences
Pullman
Vancouver
Tri-Cities
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Biochemistry
Biology
Earth Sciences
Environmental and Ecosystem Sciences
Forest Ecology and Management
General Science
Genetics and Cell Biology
Human Biology
Neuroscience
Wildlife Ecology and Conservation Sciences
Zoology
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

