Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/multimedia-journalism/

Back to Degree Finder
Multimedia Journalism
Edward R. Murrow College of Communication
Department of Journalism and Media Production
Learn reporting and editing skills for storytelling in online video, audio, and data-visualization mediums.
Campuses:
Pullman
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Doctorate
Master's
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Cable 8
, a student-run public television station, helps you gain experience and apply your knowledge
The
Murrow News Service
gives you experience in producing professional news stories and provides public-interest journalism to media partners like The Seattle Times and NBC News
The
Daily Evergreen
, the student voice of WSU since 1895 and one of the only college newspapers that covers city and county news, is a weekly paper distributed throughout Pullman
KUGR
, a student run radio station broadcasting live music, shows and sports since 1954
The
Religion Reporting Project,
an experiential learning program with field trips, in-depth discussions, and writing opportunities that broaden your understanding of how religious beliefs and practices shape our world
The
Rural Reporting Project
, an immersive learning experience that connects you with rural communities in the region
Murrow Symposium
brings industry experts and speakers to campus annually, providing workshops and networking opportunities
Award-winning, experienced faculty and advisors to guide you
Murrow Center for Student Success
Career Ready
program offers career advising and preparation services
Strong alumni network provides career coaching and mentoring to current students and graduates
Career
With a Multimedia Journalism degree, you can work in:
Print and digital journalism
Magazines
News casting
Television and radio production
Multimedia production
Documentary film
Program development
Nonprofit and government agencies
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Multimedia Journalism
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Journalism and Media Production
Pullman
Master's
Master of Arts in Communication
Pullman
Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy in Communication
Pullman
Minor
Sports Communication
Pullman
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Broadcast News
Broadcast Production
Journalism and Media Production
Media and Innovation
Public Relations
Risk and Crisis Communication
Integrated Strategic Communication
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

