Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/music-education/

Back to Degree Finder
Music Education
College of Arts and Sciences
School of Music
Learn how to teach general music, instrumental music, and choral music in middle or high school and earn teacher certification.
Campuses:
Global Campus (Online)
Pullman
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Certificate
Master's
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Learn from acclaimed faculty, including Fulbright Scholars and national award winners
Access the extensive
Kemble Stout Music Listening Library
, professional quality recording studio, electronic music lab, concert halls, and large ensemble rehearsal rooms in the Kimbrough Music Building
Stage facilities in Bryan Hall, including an 800-seat auditorium, a production shop, piano and instrumental repair shops, and a three-manual 44-rank Schantz pipe organ
Participate in undergraduate research guided by renowned faculty
Internship and study abroad opportunities
Career
With a Music Education degree, you can work in:
Teaching in schools and private studios
Professional, school, and community ensembles
Concerts, tours, and shows
Theatrical productions
Arts administration
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Music Education
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Music Education
Pullman
Master's
Master of Arts in Music
Pullman
Global Campus (Online)
Minor
Music
Pullman
Music Technology
Pullman
Jazz Studies
Pullman
Certificate
Music Education Teaching Certification
Pullman
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Music
Music Business
Music Composition
Music Performance
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

