Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/neuroscience/

Back to Degree Finder
Neuroscience
College of Veterinary Medicine
Department of Integrative Physiology and Neuroscience
A study of neuroscience including approaches from anatomy, pharmacology, engineering, and computer science centers on the brain and nervous system.
Campuses:
Pullman
Vancouver
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Doctorate
Master's
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
STARS program
helps you get an early start on a Ph.D. in biochemistry, genetics and cell biology,  microbiology, or neuroscience.
Participate in undergraduate research guided by renowned faculty in fields like addiction, pharmacology, and sensory neuroscience
The Veterinary and Biomedical Research building, a research and teaching facility with state-of-the-art equipment
Owen Science and Engineering Library
, the largest of its kind in the Pacific Northwest
Join a math, science, and engineering residence hall, where you can study with your neighbors, get free tutoring, and use the hall’s computer lab
Specializations
Accelerated Pre-Veterinary Neuroscience
allows you to graduate with a bachelor’s degree and a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine in just seven years by starting your doctorate coursework a year earlier.
Biomedical Business
combines neuroscience and business courses to succeed in biotechnology entrepreneurship.
General Neuroscience
allows you to shape your own programs of study based on your interests.
Pre-Professional
tracks help you meet all the requirements for entrance into health professions programs after graduation.
Research Neuroscience
helps you get experience and skills to pursue graduate studies in biomedical sciences or enter a research-based career.
Career
With a Neuroscience degree, you can work in:
Biomedical and Biotechnology industries
Health care and physical therapy
Pharmacy and pharmaceutical industry
Private or governmental laboratories
Research of neurological diseases
Medical or Veterinary technical assistance
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Neuroscience
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Neuroscience
Pullman
Vancouver
Master's
Master of Science in Neuroscience
Pullman
Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy in Neuroscience
Pullman
Minor
Neuroscience
Pullman
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Biochemistry
Biology
Earth Sciences
Environmental and Ecosystem Sciences
Forest Ecology and Management
General Science
Genetics and Cell Biology
Human Biology
Microbiology
Wildlife Ecology and Conservation Sciences
Zoology
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

