Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/organic-and-sustainable-agriculture/

Back to Degree Finder
Organic and Sustainable Agriculture
College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences
Department of Agricultural and Food Systems
Study innovative agricultural systems to produce ecologically mindful and profitable foods, as well as marketing approaches to meet the global demand for organic and sustainable foods.
Campuses:
Everett
Global Campus (Online)
Pullman
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Certificate
Graduate Certificate
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
The
Eggert Family Organic Farm
, a 30-acre interdisciplinary organic farm and community center, with produce distributed through an on-campus food service, a local food co-op, a regional food hub, and an on-campus farm stand at WSU Pullman
Greenhouses, farms, research centers, and other facilities
available on campus and throughout the state
First program of its kind to be offered in the nation
Participate in undergraduate research guided by renowned faculty
Blend of classroom instruction and hands-on field experience
Career
With an Organic and Sustainable Agriculture degree, you can work in:
Organic certification inspection and food production consulting
Organic crop and seed sales and marketing
Organic dairy production and sustainable farm management
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Science in Agricultural and Food Systems
Pullman
Everett
Graduate Certificate
Sustainable Agriculture
Pullman
Global Campus (Online)
Certificate
Sustainable Agriculture Graduate
Pullman
Organic Agriculture
Pullman
Global Campus (Online)
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Agricultural Biotechnology
Agricultural and Food Business Economics
Animal Sciences
Field Crop Management
Landscape, Nursery, and Greenhouse Management
Agricultural Education
Agricultural Technology and Production Management
Food Science
Fruit and Vegetable Management
Human Nutrition and Food Systems
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

