Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/pharmaceutical-and-medical-sciences/

Back to Degree Finder
Pharmaceutical and Medical Sciences
College of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences
Study the human body, diseases, basic sciences, and biomedical research to prepare for a career in health sciences.
Campuses:
Spokane
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Doctorate
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Start in Pullman and complete your degree in Spokane
Research labs, clinics, and other facilities let you apply your knowledge
Participate in undergraduate research guided by renowned faculty
Gain experience with worksite internships in Spokane and other regions
Specializations
Accelerated Pharmacy
allows you to graduate with a bachelor’s degree and Doctor of Pharmacy in just seven years by starting your doctorate coursework a year earlier.
General Pharmaceutical and Medical Sciences
prepares you for professional programs like Doctor of Pharmacy, Doctor of Philosophy in Pharmaceutical Sciences and Molecular Medicine, or Medical Doctor after you earn your Bachelor of Science in Pharmaceutical and Medical Sciences.
Medical Laboratory Science
lets you earn a certificate in Medical Laboratory Science in addition to your Bachelor of Science in Pharmaceutical and Medical Sciences via an additional year of coursework and laboratory assistance at Providence Sacred Heart Medical Center.
Career
With a Pharmaceutical and Medical Sciences degree, you can work in:
Pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries
Agricultural and food industries
Private or governmental laboratories
Research and development
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Pharmaceutical and Medical Sciences
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Pharmaceutical and Medical Sciences
Pullman
Spokane
Doctorate
Doctor of Pharmacy
Spokane
Doctor of Philosophy in Pharmaceutical Sciences and Molecular Medicine
Spokane
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Biochemistry
Biology
Genetics and Cell Biology
Kinesiology
Microbiology
Neuroscience
Nursing
Nutrition and Exercise Physiology
Speech and Hearing Sciences
Sports Medicine and Athletic Training
Zoology
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

