Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/political-science/

Back to Degree Finder
Political Science
College of Arts and Sciences
School of Politics, Philosophy, and Public Affairs
Study the uses and consequences of public authority in the allocation of societal resources, with a focus on problem-driven research that confronts both traditional and emerging challenges in the U.S. and throughout the world.
Campuses:
Global Campus (Online)
Pullman
Vancouver
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Doctorate
Graduate Certificate
Master's
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Active-learning curriculum includes elaborate policymaking and crisis management simulations
Pre-Law Resource Center
helps you prepare a path to law school
The accomplished WSU Mock Trial team allows you to practice law skills with fictional cases
The
Foley Institute for Public Policy and Public Service
brings speakers and thought leaders to the Pullman campus
Participate in undergraduate research guided by renowned faculty
Study abroad and other student engagement programs allow you to build your knowledge and gain experience
Specializations
General Political Science
offers a varied and flexible program including American politics, comparative and international politics, policy and public administration, and a range of elective courses in political science.
Global Politics
emphasizes comparative and international politics and includes an international experience, which can be fulfilled through study abroad, an international internship, or a minor in a foreign language or global studies.
Pre-Law
option prepares you for law school and a variety of legal careers.
Career
With a Political Science degree, you can work in:
Government service
Public policy and law
Politics and campaigning
Regional planning
Consulting
Nonprofit administration
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Political Science
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Political Science
Pullman
Global Campus (Online)
Vancouver
Master's
Master of Arts in Political Science
Pullman
Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy in Political Science
Pullman
Graduate Certificate
Global Justice and Security Studies
Pullman
Minor
Political Science
Pullman
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Comparative Ethnic Studies
Criminal Justice and Criminology
International Business
History
Philosophy
Social Sciences
Social Studies
Sociology
Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

