Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/public-health/

Back to Degree Finder
Public Health
College of Veterinary Medicine
Learn how to address society’s complex public health challenges by analyzing factors that influence public health-related practices, beliefs, and behaviors in diverse communities, developing skills in ethical, evidence-based decision making and communication, and advocating for the protection and promotion of the public’s health.
Campuses:
Pullman
Spokane
Vancouver
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Hands-on learning and cutting-edge research opportunities with leading faculty and researchers prepare you for diverse career opportunities
Start your degree in Pullman and finish in Spokane or Vancouver based on your chosen specialization
Program leverages the expertise of the
Washington Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory
and the
Paul G. Allen School for Global Health
on the Pullman campus and addiction researchers at the Spokane and Vancouver campuses
Specializations
Infectious Disease
focuses on population health, health systems, methods, biostatistics, health communications, environmental health administration, and community health development. You’ll study epidemiology, infectious disease testing, vaccine development, data management, statistical analysis, and bioinformatics. (Pullman)
Community and Behavioral Health
focuses on addiction science, including the fundamentals of behavioral health, the theoretical basis of substance use disorder, the complex interactions between physical and mental health, and the behavioral antecedents and correlates of chronic health conditions.  (Vancouver | Spokane)
Career
With a Public Health degree, you can work in:
Human and veterinary healthcare
Health education, promotion and disease prevention
Emergency preparedness and response planning
Environmental health monitoring
Biostatistics and research analysis
Health policy and administration
Epidemiology and disease surveillance
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Public Health
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Public Health
Pullman
Vancouver
Spokane
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Biochemistry
Biology
Genetics and Cell Biology
Kinesiology
Microbiology
Neuroscience
Pharmaceutical and Medical Sciences
Sports Medicine and Athletic Training
Zoology
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

