Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/public-affairs/

Back to Degree Finder
Public Affairs
College of Arts and Sciences
School of Politics, Philosophy, and Public Affairs
Learn how to analyze, question, and improve the political institutions that shape our daily lives.
Campuses:
Vancouver
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Master's
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Gain hands-on experience by engaging with the southwest Washington community
Intern at local and national public offices or private organizations
Professional and peer mentoring to help you succeed
Participate in undergraduate research guided by renowned faculty
Specializations
Justice Studies
focuses on the analysis of justice through the lens of behavioral and social sciences.
Public Administration and Management
teaches you how to manage both government and nonprofit agencies while serving the public.
Public Policy and Politics
prepares you to analyze and influence lawmaking at all levels of government and solve community problems.
Career
With a Public Affairs degree, you can work in:
Government and nonprofit organizations
Marketing and public relations
Corporate communications
Journalism and activism
Environmental rights
Social justice
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Public Affairs
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Public Affairs
Vancouver
Master's
Public Affairs MPA
Vancouver
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Comparative Ethnic Studies
Criminal Justice and Criminology
International Business
History
Philosophy
Social Sciences
Social Studies
Sociology
Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

