Link: https://degrees.wsu.edu/degree/womens-gender-and-sexuality-studies/

Back to Degree Finder
Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies
College of Arts and Sciences
Department of English
An interdisciplinary field rooted in scholarship and activism that places gender at the center of inquiry, this program will teach you how to investigate and challenge social inequalities based on systems of gender as they intersect with class, race, ethnicity, nationality, sexual orientation, and age.
Campuses:
Pullman
Vancouver
Degree Types:
Bachelor's
Minor
Request Information
Apply
Visit
Highlights
Benefit from the program’s close relationship with the
Women*s Center
and the
LGBTQ+ Center
Work with a faculty mentor on independent studies, special projects, and career exploration
Participate in new research areas like theories of identities and bodies, women and the environment, feminist theory, queer theory, disability studies, and more
Scholars and activists visit campus, offering engaged learning opportunities
Study abroad, internship and fieldwork opportunities let you apply your knowledge and gain experience
Career
With a Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies degree, you can work in:
Social work and counseling
Advocacy
Teaching
Community organizations and development
Human resources
Nonprofit or government agencies
Research
Transfer Students
WSU accepts
credit
from Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and CLEP exams, associate degrees, Running Start and more.
You’re considered a transfer student at WSU if you’ve received college credit post-high school.
Use our
Transfer Course Search Tool
to determine what courses you need to take at your current institution to transition to WSU smoothly.
Admission to WSU and admission to your desired major are two separate processes. Contact your academic department for specific requirements and prerequisites unique to your major.
Scholarships
Complete the
General Scholarship Application
to be eligible for 700+ WSU scholarship programs, including ones specifically for a major you’re interested in. Use our
search tool
to find more scholarships outside WSU.
Fill out the
FAFSA
(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) or
WASFA
(Washington Application for State Financial Aid) to be considered for scholarships, grants, loans, and other forms of aid.
Internships, Jobs, and Work-study
Find hundreds of student-friendly jobs, internships, and work-study opportunities with our WSU student job board,
Handshake.
You can also check with departments for internships specific to a major.
Get advice and learn more at the
Academic Success and Career Center.
Dig Deeper
Find out more about a degree in Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies
Let’s Go
Degree Options
Bachelor's
Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies
Pullman
Minor
Women’s Studies Minor
Pullman
Vancouver
Queer Studies Minor
Pullman
Contact
Contact your personal admission counselor
rep.wsu.edu
future.coug@wsu.edu
888-GO-TO-WSU (888-468-6978)
Related Degrees & Majors
Anthropology
Comparative Ethnic Studies
Criminal Justice and Criminology
Human Biology
Human Development
Political Science
Psychology
Social Sciences
Social Studies
Sociology
Still undecided?
Not sure what to study?
Explore Your Options
Request Information
*
Required field
Loading...Initial deposit: USD $2000

Application Fee for Undergraduate: USD $70
Application Fee for Postgraduate: USD $90 


Annual Fee for all Undergraduate Programs: $30,830

Annual Fee for all Postgraduate Programs: $14,636


English Language Requirements Undergraduate only:

Required IELTS Score: 6.5
Required PTE Academic Score:53
Required TOEFL Score:75


English Language Requirements Postgraduate only:

Required TOEFL Score: 75 with Listening 17 and         Speaking 20
Required IELTS Score: 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Speaking
Required PTE Score: 56



Entry Requirements Undergraduate only:

To be considered for admission to Washington State University as a first-year student, a student needs to complete at least 12 years of school, culminating in an appropriate secondary certificate or external examination. 
Schooling should include preparation in humanities, mathematics, basic sciences, and social sciences.
University requires a minimum grade point average of 2.70 (on a 4.00 scale) for admission as an international first-year student.


Entry Requirements Postgraduate only:

Have earned the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution. Typically, students should have completed a minimum of four years of study beyond grade 12.
Have a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or a B grade or better.

