Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/9256

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Advanced Design
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 9256
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-12 - Design
Type of access
Restricted access - entrance exam (84 places available)
Proposed paths (Curricula)
ADVANCED DESIGN DEI PRODOTTI
ADVANCED DESIGN DEI SERVIZI
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
It trains people capable of anticipating change, linking the market, civil society and the environment.
Close cooperation with local businesses, institutions and organisations through project and internship experiences.
Possibility of developing projects from the concept phase to prototyping.
Training focused on the use of new technologies applied in highly innovative contexts
Teaching staff comprising professors, designers, managers, business people and public administration officials.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Curriculum Advanced design dei prodotti: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Advanced design dei servizi: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
As part of its foreign experiences, the programme offers the opportunity to complete your thesis and to participate in internships at international companies and organisations. In addition, participation in exchange and mobility programmes offers the possibility of gaining practical experience in other cultural contexts, thus fostering a better opening to the national and international labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data