Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/9239

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Advanced Automotive Engineering
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 9239
Place of teaching
Modena, Bologna
Language
English
Degree Programme Class
LM-33 - Mechanical engineering
Type of access
Restricted access - entrance exam
International Programmes
Delivered entirely in English, Joint degree
UNIVERSITA' DEGLI STUDI DI MODENA E REGGIO EMILIA
,
UNIVERSITA' DI PARMA
,
UNIVERSITA' DI FERRARA
Proposed paths (Curricula)
ADVANCED MOTORCYCLE ENGINEERING
ADVANCED POWERTRAIN
ADVANCED SPORTSCAR MANUFACTURING
OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE ENGINEERING
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will gain skills that will be in demand in the automotive industry in the future.
You will be in direct contact with the main car producers of the region.
A mechatronic approach and 5 different curricula for each specialization programme.
You will gain direct experience in what working in the industry is like.
You will learn to develop sports cars and state-of-the-art automotive components.
Professional profiles
AdvancedAutomotive Engineer
Function in aprofessional context:
The Advanced Automotive Engineeris a professional who, starting from basic industrial knowledge and, at leastinitially, mechanical/mechatronic knowledge, is able, having a completeoverview of the vehicle system, to design, develop and produce the mainsub-systems in cars and motorcycles, with particular reference to the premiumand racing vehicle market, and develop and manage the related technological andproduction processes.
The main functions in the workingcontext of Advanced Automotive Engineers are vehicle architectures, the designand development of the main subsystems and components for: combustion, hybridand electric engines, including energy storage and conversion solutions, andthe related modelling and control problems; car and road vehicle architecturefor both industrial and competition sectors; production systems characterisedby the typical aspects of the new industry 4.0 paradigm (industrial robotics,supply chain design and management, big data, etc.).
The multidisciplinary features ofthis professional profile are its main strength, although, given the increasingcomplexity of new-generation road vehicles and the consequent progressivespecification of the functions and tasks of vehicle engineers held withincompanies, in cooperation with industrial partners, five specific professionalprofiles were defined, as follows:
1. Advanced Automotive Engineer,road vehicle architecture expert: defines and develops vehicle systems,starting from the understanding of the fundamental aspects, and designs allmajor systems and subsystems of high-performance road vehicles.
2. Advanced Automotive Engineer,competition vehicle system architecture expert: defines the vehicle systemstarting from the understanding of the fundamental aspects, and designs all themajor systems and subsystems of competition vehicles. This differs from theprevious profile due to the greater specialisation in aerodynamic aspects, theuse of light materials (Carbon Fibre Reinforced Materials), and strongexperimental skills.
3. Advanced Automotive Engineer,drivetrain systems expert: designs and supports the engineering of conventionaland innovative drivetrain systems, with attention to their optimization,control and the resolution of environmental and energy problems.
4. Advanced Automotive Engineer,motorcycles expert: works in the design and development of motorcycles with ahigh technological content, for both mass production and competitions. Tacklesand manages the typical aspects of electronic engineering and industrialdesign, specific to motorcycles.
5. Advanced Automotive Engineer,production expert: aims to train engineers to plan, develop, control and manageautomotive production systems. The main areas of knowledge covered by thecourse units are: process engineering, design of industrial plants and systems,production management and optimization, automation technologies and solutions,digital technologies for the factory 4.0 and the management of quality controlprocesses.
In addition to technical andengineering competencies, strong transferable skills are also required,ensuring the accurate communication of technical contents, project working,also of a multidisciplinary nature, the continuous development of theoreticaland practical skills through a learning by doing approach.
Competenciesassociated to the function:
The functions associated to theprofile of Advanced Automotive Engineer, road vehicle architecture expertdemand specialist competencies in the main aspects of drawing and design,vehicle construction, vehicle dynamics and NVH (Noise Vibration Harshness),materials behaviour, mechanical technology, aerodynamics, thermo-fluiddynamics, automatic controls, electronics and sensors.
The functions associated to theprofile of Advanced Automotive Engineer, competition vehicle systemarchitecture expert demand specific competencies in: vehicle architecture,vehicle mechanics, structural computing with light materials, compositematerials and for additive manufacturing, vehicle aerodynamics and dynamics.
The functions associated to theprofile of Advanced Automotive Engineer, drivetrain systems expert demandcompetence in modelling, optimization, control and the resolution ofenvironmental and energy problems relating to conventional and innovativedrivetrain systems. The specific competencies run from the study of internalcombustion engines, electric drivetrains, solutions for electro-mechanicalenergy conversion and storage and the main drivetrain design and productiontechnologies, as well as the study of advanced control and calibrationtechniques.
The functions associated to theprofile of Advanced Automotive Engineer, motorcycles expert demand specificcompetencies typical of electronic engineering and industrial design, linked tothe design, vibration mechanics, mechanical technologies, motorcycle dynamics,the design of endothermic and BEV drivetrains, to the development of driverassistance systems.
The functions associated to theprofile of Advanced Automotive Engineer, production expert demand specialistcompetencies in: process engineering, design of industrial plants and systems,production management and optimization, automation technologies and solutions,digital technologies for the factory 4.0 and management of quality controlprocesses.
careeropportunities:
The main career opportunities inconnection with this programme are those related to product and process innovationand development, advanced design, planning and programming production, complexsystems management, in manufacturing or service companies involved in designingand producing premium and competition motor vehicles and motorbikes and ininternational production chains.
Advanced Automotive Engineeringgraduates can continue studying and complete their education by enrolling in aDoctoral or 2nd Level Master programme.
Graduates also have thecompetencies and skills required by law to be Engineers with the differentspecialisations regulated by the State within the Professional Association ofEngineers, Section A, Industrial sector.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Curriculum Advanced Powertrain: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Advanced Motorcycle Engineering: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Advanced Sportscar Manufacturing: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Off-Highway vehicle engineering: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
As part of the experiences abroad, the course offers the possibility of internships in international organisations and participation in exchange programmes. These experiences offer direct contact with international realities, enriching the understanding of global dynamics and providing a concrete advantage in the international labour market.
I had the chance to work with a hands-on approach to different projects, laboratory activities and seminars held by experts coming directly from the leading companies in the automotive field.The program offered me the opportunity to visit all the companies spread around the Motor Valley, gaining a first-hand experience of the automotive world.
Federico, graduate
When you can attend the degree programme
26
Nov
2024
Open Day
MOTOR VEHICLE, AEROSPACE AND MECHANICAL ENGINEERING AREA | Presentation of the International Master's degree programmes
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data