Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/9225

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Advanced Cosmetic Sciences
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 9225
Place of teaching
Campus Rimini
Language
English
Degree Programme Class
LM-54 - Chemistry
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
International Programmes
Delivered entirely in English
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will become a chemist working in different areas of the cosmetics industry: formulation, regulatory, quality control, etc.
The programme provides you with theoretical and practical training in the scientific and technological aspects of cosmetic products.
The 'Giacomo Ciamician' Department of Chemistry has been selected for its excellence by the Ministry of University and Research.
The cosmetics industry is an economically important and growing area of business: the programme opens the door to this growing market.
Cosmetic sciences are developed all over the world and this programme offers you access to an innovative international environment.
Professional profiles
Chemistry role in a work context:
The chemist to be trained will be able towork at the highest level in the cosmetics industry, with competence in all sectors: technology-formulations, regulatory, chemical cosmetology, chemical-physical, toxicological, microbiological, functional, quality control.
The chemist will work in and/or manage the research, development and analysis laboratories of cosmetics firms, considering also the related regulatory and certification matters and commercial promotion activities.
In order to work as an independent professional, the chemist must pass the Stateexam and join the Order of Chemists.
competencies associated with the role:
- the chemist is able to apply chemical and technological methodologies and procedures for the formulation and industrial production of effective and safe cosmetics, hygiene products and related items;
- the chemist is able to prepare and perform chemical, microbiological and technological quality checks on cosmeticsand related products;
- the chemist is able to monitor laboratory activities, applying Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) and supervise production and the application of Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), as well as prepareor contribute to the development of the Quality System adopted by the firm in accordance with the UNI EN standards and, in particular, the following UNI ENISO 9001, UNI EN ISO 14001, UNI EN ISO 17561, UNI EN ISO 22716;
- the chemist is able to prepare theProduct Information File (PIF) for cosmetic products and register theirformulations on the ministerial/European portal;
- the chemist is able to apply chemical, biochemical, microbiological, toxicological and technological methodologies and procedures for stability studies and assessment of the effectiveness and safetyof cosmetic formulations;
- the chemist is able to preparescientific-informative and general documentation for correct and effective corporate communications about cosmetic products.
career opportunities:
The graduate in Advanced Cosmetic Sciencescan find employment in:
-industries and commercial firms in the cosmetics field;
-public and private analysis and product category laboratories;
- bodies responsible for preparing technical standards or quality certification;
- public and private universities and research bodies;
- scientific communication and advertising agencies.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
As part of your experience abroad, the programme offers you the opportunity to spend the second semester of your second year at international companies or universities for your internship in preparation for your thesis. This experience enables you to  come into direct contact with international concerns, giving you an edge in the labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
3
Dec
2024
Open Day
CHEMISTRY AND INDUSTRIAL CHEMISTRY AREA | Presentation of the International Master’s degree programmes
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data