Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5810

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Advanced Methods in Particle Physics
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5810
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
                            
                               -  Bologna, Dortmund, Clermont-Ferrand
Language
English
Degree Programme Class
LM-17 - Physics
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
International Programmes
Delivered entirely in English, Joint degree
UNIVERSITÉ DE CLERMONT AUVERGNE
,
TU TECNISCHE UNIVERSITAT - DORTMUND
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
Acquire cutting-edge knowledge in the field of particle physics
Acquire skills in great demand on the job market: statistics and artificial intelligence, detector and electronics as well as computer science
Experience life, culture and education in three countries at the heart of Europe and in leading laboratories and universities worldwide for the thesis
Enhance your CV with an international joint master's degree in physics
Join an international student network
Professional profiles
Researcher in Physics of elementary particles Function in a professional context: Researchers in Physics of elementary particles have in-depth knowledge of the development and testing of sensors, big data analysis using artificial intelligence algorithms and computer science. They may work in various fields of science and technology, particularly in the High-Energy Physics sector. They are able to plan and conduct experiments detecting elementary particles at different energies; coordinate small research groups able to develop new technologies, including artificial intelligence algorithms, computer science and silicon tracers; analyse and manage big data; develop and test innovative experimental apparatus; draft research proposals and funding applications; cooperate with research staff; develop original solutions to problems. Competencies associated to the function: Knowledge: Theoretical and experimental physics of elementary particles; advanced big data analytical techniques using artificial intelligence tools; hardware and software required to develop advanced computer science systems; key modern technologies used to develop elementary particle tracer apparatus. Abilities and skills: Complex problem solving, proposing effective and innovative solutions; planning and conduction of experiments; data collection and analysis; adaptation to research in an international context; writing of articles, reports, research proposals and funding applications; cooperation in a working group. Career opportunities: In an international context, research institutes, educational institutes of all levels, particularly universities, companies working in the physics sector, governmental organisations.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
As part of the experiences abroad, the course offers the possibility of internships in international organisations and participation in exchange programmes. These experiences offer direct contact with international realities, enriching the understanding of global dynamics and providing a concrete advantage in the international labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
5
Dec
2024
Open Day
PHYSICS, ASTROPHYSICS AND MATHS AREA | Presentation of the International Master’s degree programmes
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data