Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5706

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Advanced Spectroscopy in Chemistry
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5706
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
English
Degree Programme Class
LM-71 - Industrial chemistry
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
International Programmes
Delivered entirely in English, Joint degree
UNIWERSYTET JAGIELLONSKI W KRAKOWIE
,
UNIVERSITY OF HELSINKI
,
UNIVERSITE' DE LILLE
,
UNIVERSITÄT LEIPZIG
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
Become experts in chemical analysis and characterization of the structure and property of materials.
Believing in multicultural diversity as a strong opportunity.
Winter schools, company advising, internships opportunity in industry and to international laboratories.
Travelling among Europe for studying.
Joint/multiple degree awarded.
Professional profiles
Industrial chemist with expertise in experimental spectroscopy methods for determining chemical and physical parameters.
Function in a professional context
Professional activities:
1. Research, Development and Analysis of Products, Materials, Processes and Formulations
2. Safety and Quality System Management
Industrial Chemists who obtain the second cycle degree/two year master in Advanced
Spectroscopy in Chemistry conduct research, tests, experiments and analyses on products,
materials or formulations of industrial relevance, and for basic applications, identifying their
composition and properties. They identify and apply survey methods and formulate theories on
the basis of observations. They design or improve products, materials, formulations or processes
also of a non-conventional type using theoretical simulation techniques.
More specifically:
1. They plan, design and carry out the tests and laboratory trials for the development of new
products, materials and formulations and the improvement of existing ones, based on the
company development policy and in response to specific customer requirements. They
collaborate with technical support and production to characterise and qualify new products and
new technologies to be tested. They deal independently with any diagnostic problems applying
their knowledge of spectroscopy acquired during the degree programme. They know how to carry
out both pure and applied research in multicultural and multilingual environments.
2. Based on the specifications of products, materials, formulations or processes, they plan, design
and perform quality controls which require knowledge of advanced chemical and instrumental
techniques. They guarantee the necessary technical support in the detection of defects and
identifying the cause of defects in a production and/or packaging system. They inspect products,
components and parts and certify analysis results. They draft proposals aimed at improving
control procedures, within the framework of the new REACH (Registration, Evaluation,
Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals) European standard for the introduction of new
molecules on the market.
Competencies associated with the role
In order to carry out the above, they will:
- know how to correlate the atomic and molecular properties with the structural characteristics of
their compounds, based on their use as functional materials in various application sectors
- know how to determine the molecular interactions of superconductors, polymers, advanced
ceramics, composites for industrial and medical applications
- know how to apply spectroscopic techniques: magnetic resonance spectrometry (NMR) to
determine complex molecular structures; mass spectrometry (MS), also interfaced with
chromatographic systems, in the structural and quali-quantitative determination of composites;
GC-MS and HPLC-MS techniques in Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) certification procedures
- know about electronic microscopy, diffraction analysis and X-ray absorption, IR and Raman
microscopy for structural analyses
- know about calculator simulation techniques to design products and functional materials
- know how to apply spectroscopic techniques in industry to monitor and control processes
- know how to apply advanced spectroscopic techniques in accordance with the requirements of
the REACH regulations.
Career opportunities
- Chemical, pharmaceutical industry and client companies in the chemical industry: research and development, production and logistics, technical, environment and quality assistance.
- Services: Analysis laboratories, environmental and plant management, consulting companies (subject to registration in the professional association of chemists).
- Universities, public and private organisations, research bodies.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
Having a mandatory mobility, ASC promote students’ mobility within a network of research laboratories spread amongst countries from a large area of Europe in an environment where they will be well looked after and acquire transferable skills in a multicultural environment.
When you can attend the degree programme
3
Dec
2024
Open Day
CHEMISTRY AND INDUSTRIAL CHEMISTRY AREA | Presentation of the International Master’s degree programmes
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data