Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5824

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Biodiversity and Evolution
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5824
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-6 - Biology
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will acquire knowledge for a global overview and integrated management of biological, natural and environmental problems.
You will specialise with multidisciplinary skills and approaches indispensable to the evolutionary, ecological and environmental fields.
You will experience fundamental practical work in the field and in the laboratory, acquiring expertise and methods required in the working world.
You will receive direct theoretical and practical training in every aspect of managing experimental protocols and research projects.
The programme is deeply embedded in the international context, offering opportunities for study, work and research experience abroad.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
The programme’s strong practical component includes the possibility of taking part in experiences and internships abroad, at universities and research institutions of international standing. The modern, global dimension of the programme’s biological and naturalistic know-how offers students a broad panorama of international collaborations, translating into postgraduate employment opportunities in Italy and abroad.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data