Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/8020

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Bioinformatics
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 8020
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
English
Degree Programme Class
LM-6 - Biology
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
International Programmes
Delivered entirely in English
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
An interdisciplinary subject at the intersection of modern “Omic” Biology and Data Science.
An international programme connected with the main European research hubs in Bioinformatics.
The Master will equip you with training in computing, statistics, machine-learning and advanced techniques for Big Data analysis.
Hands-on activities will equip you with practical skills suited to work in applied Biomedical and Biotechnological fields.
Special advanced courses present the hot-spots of basic and applied research on the complexity of biological systems.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled in a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
The International Master's in Bioinformatics offers many internship opportunities in international institutions for thesis projects. Dedicated fellowships are available through the Erasmus+ study and mobility for traineeship programmes. Exchange initiatives have been established with European institutions in Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and Turkey.
When you can attend the degree programme
28
Nov
2024
Open Day
PHARMACY AND BIOTECHNOLOGY AREA | Presentation of the International Master’s degree programmes
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data