Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5944

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Business Administration and Sustainability
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5944
Place of teaching
Campus Forlì
Language
English
Degree Programme Class
LM-77 - Management
Type of access
Restricted access - entrance exam (60 places available)
International Programmes
Delivered entirely in English, Double/Multiple degree
NEOMA BUSINESS SCHOOL
,
ICN BUSINESS SCHOOL - NANCY
Proposed paths (Curricula)
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
SUSTAINABLE FOOD SYSTEM MANAGEMENT
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
Class with limited number of students to favour participation; interactive teaching; faculty with strong academic performance and business background.
Specific labs/seminars/internships and connections with the world-of-practice to help you understanding the challenges faced by global companies.
International partnership and a double–degree programme with two French business schools: 1st year I Forlì, 2nd year abroad to get the double degree.
Focus on the Sustainability and partnerships with the Food Industry and local companies operating on international markets.
Multidisciplinary approach: successful problem-solving skills through knowledge in different fields.
Professional profiles
Business Manager or Business Consultant
Tasks in a professional context:
Business Managers or Consultants supportthe top management of public or private firms in the administration ofsingle-business companies or companies specialising in the food supply chain.They also take care of the main corporate activities associated with thedefinition and measurement of strategic goals, with special attention to thesustainability goals set by international organisations (e.g. UN SustainableDevelopment Goals).
Competencies associated with the function:
The competencies associated with this professionalprofile include:
- Being able to solve corporatefunction-specific problems, understanding their implications for other areasand for the business as a whole, also by managing growing digital informationassets.
- Understanding national and internationalbusiness administration and the mechanisms that regulate the reference marketsfor the industry in which they specialise (e.g., food).
- Being aware of the management informationneeds and the financial administration analysis models, and being able toassess the form and content of the reports for the management in internationalcontexts.
- Being able to analyse how internationalfinancial markets work and use business valuation techniques.
- Being able to identify objectives andmeasure corporate performance (also by using appropriate sustainability impactindicators).
- Being aware of the main methods to manage,motivate and improve staff.
- Analysing and developing the link betweencorporate impact and SDGs.
- Being able to draft reports/financialstatements in line with the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility andthe ISO standards on social and economic impacts.
Employment opportunities:
The competencies acquired will allowgraduates to take on management positions within:
• Industrial and professional service firmsat a national and international levels.
• Banks and supervisory authorities.
• National and international financialinstitutions.
• Financial consulting firms and investmentfunds.
• Management consulting firms.
• Highly innovative start-ups.
• Local, national or international publicauthorities involved in the food system.
• National or international researchcentres and/or organisations.
• Business start-ups in the food industry.
Start-up Consultant or Manager
Tasks in a professional context:
Start-up Consultants or Managers are ableto plan and follow a new start-up project since the very beginning – from ideageneration to market analysis, from business planning to stakeholder analysis.They combine analytical skills, soft skills and creativity to transform an ideainto a business.
Competencies associated with the function:
The competencies associated with thefunction include:
- Being able to understand what skills thata competitive environment requires of businesses and consider how to invest inorder to develop them.
- Being able to assess and build businessplans for new projects, including international projects.
- Being able to organise and planactivities, both within each functional area as well as at corporate level.
- Understanding the sales strategies that afirm can adopt to place a certain product or service on the market.
- Being able to identify the strategicimplications of innovation and the specific problems connected with corporate change management.
- Being able to analyse and develop thelink between corporate impact and SDGs.
Employment opportunities:
The competencies acquired will allowgraduates to take on positions:
• To launch new businesses and start-ups,also in the field of the ecological transition.
• As specialist consultants for launchingnew businesses.
• In investment firms.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Curriculum Business Administration: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Sustainable Food System Management: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
The programme offers several exchange opportunities both for internships and study purpose, in particular, you will have the chance to participate in the Double Degree programme with two French Business Schools. These international experiences can reinforce your international perspective and give you a competitive advantage in the job market.
When you can attend the degree programme
3
Dec
2024
Open Day
MANAGEMENT AND BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION AREA | Presentation of the International Master’s degree programmes
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data