Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/9072

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Chemistry
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 9072
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-54 - Chemistry
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Proposed paths (Curricula)
A: METODOLOGIE DI SINTESI E CHIMICA BIO-ORGANICA
B: METODOLOGIE DI ANALISI E CARATTERIZZAZIONE
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
Chemistry is everything! Objects, colours, smells, flavours, living bodies, geological structures, celestial bodies.
Chemistry governs matter: it studies its structure and properties, it controls its transformations, it designs and creates new chemical species and materials.
Chemistry applies scientific methods to study, model, invent, solve problems.
Chemistry is applied in all areas of production and research: agribusiness, environment, energy, pharmaceutics, industry and many others.
Chemistry is useful for understanding the world and improving it, and is great fun to apply in the chemistry and computational laboratories!
What you will study
Curriculum Metodologie di sintesi e chimica bio-organica: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Metodologie di analisi e caratterizzazione: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
It is possible to take part in an internship abroad in preparation for your thesis, enabling you to come into contact with the international world of research, with the support of a local tutor. Other educational activities may be supported at foreign universities as part of exchange programmes.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data