Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5899

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Cinema, Television and Multimedia Production
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5899
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-65 - Performing arts and multimedia productions
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will acquire multidisciplinary and multi-sectoral skills and competencies granting you access to the cultural industries.
You will combine historical-theoretical studies with practical and laboratory activities.
You will be able to take advantage of internship opportunities at companies in the audiovisual media sector.
You will be able to choose from a variety of study, work and research opportunities abroad.
You will develop your creativity and cultivate your passions.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
The programme offers you the opportunity to participate in exchange programmes such as Erasmus+ and Overseas, to do internships in foreign organisations and to undertake research for your thesis in another country. Through direct contact with international concerns, the programme facilitates your understanding of global dynamics and gives you a real edge in the labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data