Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/0930

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Civil Engineering
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 0930
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-23 - Civil engineering
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Proposed paths (Curricula)
COSTRUZIONI PER L’EDILIZIA E LE INFRASTRUTTURE
IDRAULICA E TERRITORIO
INFRASTRUTTURE VIARIE E TRASPORTI
STRUTTURE
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
The programme enables you to acquire professional and operational skills in all core civil engineering disciplines.
It makes room for autonomous activities aimed at conducting exercises and experimental workshops functional to the development of projects.
It allows you to carry out internships, also combined with your thesis, at international, national and regional companies.
It opens up professional opportunities in local or national bodies and in construction companies and professional firms.
It opens the door to professional and research pathways, such as Professional Master's Programmes (2nd Level) and PhDs.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Curriculum Strutture: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Infrastrutture viarie e trasporti: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Costruzioni per l'edilizia e le infrastrutture: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Idraulica e territorio: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
The programme offers you the opportunity to gain numerous experiences abroad at universities, research institutions and companies. Erasmus+ scholarships are available for parts of the programme and for internships and theses abroad
When you can attend the degree programme
5
Dec
2024
Open Day
Presentazione del corso di Laurea e Laurea Magistrale in Ingegneria Civile
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data