Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5962

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Clinical Psychology
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5962
| Qualifying programmes
Place of teaching
Campus Cesena
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-51 - Psychology
Type of access
Restricted access - entrance exam (100 places available)
International Programmes
Double/Multiple degree
UNIVERSIDAD DEL ROSARIO - COLEGIO MAYOR DE NUESTRA SENORA DEL ROSARIO
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
A programme based on extensive discussion of clinical cases.
It complements classroom education with opportunities for direct encounters with key employers in the sector.
Opportunity to attend lessons in English.
Opportunity to work in the laboratory, putting the acquired skills into practice.
Opportunity to obtain a double degree by spending six months in Colombia, at the University of Rosario in Bogotá.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca e Scuola di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
In terms of experience abroad, the programme offers the opportunity to serve an internship with an international organisation or participate in an exchange programme. These experiences offer opportunities for direct contact with international organisations, enriching the student’s understanding of global dynamics and providing a real advantage in the international labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data