Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5826

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Computer Engineering
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5826
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-32 - Computer systems engineering
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
The programme prepares students to move in all the modern directions of computer engineering development.
The curriculum is largely customisable, allowing you to build your own pathway according to your interests.
Numerous electives in English allow you to strengthen your language skills and get to know students from other countries.
An extensive network of external relations offers valuable opportunities to do your thesis within a company or abroad.
Today, software engineers are fully-fledged digital architects: IT is first and foremost creativity applied to an ever-changing world.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Curriculum Ingegneria informatica: for students enroled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
Although delivered in Italian, the programme strongly promotes both outgoing and incoming internationalisation, encouraging participation in European (Erasmus+) and non-European (Overseas) schemes with many foreign universities, and offers training activities in English so as to train professionals ready to tackle the international labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data