Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/8491

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Criminology for Investigation and Security
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 8491
Place of teaching
Campus Forlì
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-88 - Sociology and social research
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
For its distinctiveness, focusing on analysing social problems within the sociology of deviance and criminology.
For the quality of the training offered, with highly qualified tenured teachers in every subject.
For the focus on organising specialised seminars held by national and international professionals.
For the high percentage of graduates satisfied with their choice of programme.
To develop the ability to seek solutions to social problems related to criminal events and victimisation processes.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (PHD Programmes/Specialisation Schools) or second level of Professional Master's Programmes
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024/25
Experiences abroad
As part of its foreign experiences, the programme offers the opportunity to carry out internships abroad at international organisations and to participate in exchange programmes. These experiences allow direct contact with international concerns, enriching your understanding of global dynamics and providing a real advantage in the international labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data