Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5889

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Digital Innovation Policies and Governance
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5889
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-63 - Public administration
LM-91 - Methods and techniques for the information society
Type of access
Restricted access - entrance exam (50 places available)
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
Become a specialist in digital innovation for public administration.
Acquire effective multidisciplinary knowledge for tackling the digital transformation of public services and offices.
Develop skills facilitating organisational, technological and managerial changes in the digital transition of the public administration.
Learn to apply data science to assess the impact of decisions and innovations in political and administrative contexts.
Practice data analysis and understand how digital technologies operate in organisational contexts through laboratory work and internships while you prepare your thesis.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
In terms of experience abroad, the programme offers the opportunity to serve an internship with an international organisation or participate in an exchange programme. These experiences offer opportunities for direct contact with international organisations, enriching the student’s understanding of global dynamics and providing a real advantage in the international labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data