Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5981

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Economics, Consultancy and Accounting
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5981
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-77 - Management
Type of access
Restricted access - entrance exam (75 places available)
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will acquire increasingly important core corporate skills and knowledge for the world of work.
You will gain knowledge on corporate sustainability issues that are increasingly in demand in the world of work.
You will develop strong problem analysis skills and a strong propensity for problem solving.
The programme has entered into specific agreements with leading international consulting and auditing firms.
The programme has entered into specific agreements with companies of the calibre of Ferrari for internship projects reserved for enrolled students.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
As part of its foreign experiences, the programme offers the opportunity to participate in exchange programmes. These experiences allow direct contact with international concerns, enriching your understanding of global dynamics and providing a real advantage in the international labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data