Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5977

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Economics and Econometrics
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5977
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
English
Degree Programme Class
LM-56 - Economics
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
International Programmes
Delivered entirely in English
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will acquire the skills to carry out a successful career as an economist/econometrician in the labour market or academia.
You will meet academics of international reputation with expertise in economics and econometrics.
You will be part of a class small enough to allow personal and fruitful interactions with instructors.
You will be able to engage in cooperative and stimulating working relationships with peers.
You will study in an international environment and have the chance to take part in dedicated mobility and exchange programmes.
Professional profiles
Economist
Function in a professional context:
The second-cycle graduate is an expert inthe operation of economic systems, both at micro and macro level.
Specifically, in a work context, theeconomist performs the following functions:
a) performs tasks related to economic andsocial research;
b) carries out consultancy activities inthe economic, financial and industrial fields;
c) performs operational tasks withinbanking and financial institutions;
d) manage relations with publicadministrations, regulatory authorities, international institutions.
e) analyses macroeconomic developments in abroad sense, together with economic policy designs
f) act as representatives at national andinternational meetings.
For the tasks listed under a), i.e. toacquire the appropriate autonomy and level of responsibility in economicresearch, the acquisition of additional skills through attendance of PhDcourses in economics is required.
Competencies associated to the function:
Specific knowledge is required:
a) modern mathematical and statisticaltechniques applied to economic and financial markets in order to understandtheir functioning and make forecasts of future trends;
b) the main micro- and macroeconomictheories for analysing economic phenomena at national and international leveland the behaviour of the actors involved in them.
In addition to self-learning and continuousupdating skills, appropriate soft skills are required:
- communicative-relational,
- organisational-managerial,
- programming
in accordance with the assigned level ofautonomy and responsibility, with the organisational and working methodsadopted and with the main interlocutors (colleagues, other professionals andpublic and/or private clients).
Employment opportunities:
- International organisations,
- Public and private research institutes,
- Consulting firms,
- Private companies,
- Banks and financial institutions,
- Non-profit organisations,
- Public administration,
- Regulatory authorities,
- Business press.
- Universities.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
Agreements for international mobility exist with the following institutions: École Normale Supérieure Paris-Saclay, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Université de Lausanne, University of Oslo, Ecole Centrale Marseille, University of California-Berkeley. You have the opportunity to obtain a double degree with Johns Hopkins University - School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS).
When you can attend the degree programme
27
Nov
2024
Open Day
ECONOMICS AREA | Presentation of the International Master’s degree programmes
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data