Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/0905

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Economics and Commerce
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 0905
Place of teaching
Campus Forlì
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-77 - Management
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
International Programmes
Double/Multiple degree
NEOMA BUSINESS SCHOOL
,
ICN BUSINESS SCHOOL - NANCY
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
This is a vocational programme, in light of employment data in companies, institutions and professional firms.
You will acquire a comprehensive, technical background in business, finance, trade and fiscal aspects.
You will find outstanding lecturers, many with a mixed baggage of research and teaching experience combined with a significant professional experience.
You will be able to get closer to the world of work through an extensive network of relationships with institutions, companies and professional firms.
The programme cooperates with the Order of Chartered Accountants and Auditors through an agreement that encourages registration.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
The programme offers various types of experiences abroad, including internships at companies, world-wide exchange programmes, double degrees with 2 French business schools, and theses abroad. These experiences will not only enrich you personally and linguistically, but will also give you concrete competitive advantages in the labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data