Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/8770

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Electronics and Telecommunications Engineering for Energy
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 8770
Place of teaching
Campus Cesena
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-29 - Electronic engineering
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will develop skills consistent with a single-cycle degree programme in the design of electronic and telecommunications systems.
You will be able to apply these foundations in concrete design experiences.
You will have the opportunity to test your knowledge in the lab throughout your training.
You will interact directly with teachers and researchers for your thesis and will come into direct contacts with national and transnational industrial concerns and research bodies.
You will experiment with applying Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning to design.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
A transnational experience is a real option, through collaborations established by the teaching staff with several foreign institutes and universities. This experience may also take place through traditional channels such as Erasmus, Erasmus+ and Overseas, once again through the many contacts established by the programme’s teachers.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data