Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/0934

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Electronic Engineering
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 0934
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
English, Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-29 - Electronic engineering
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
International Programmes
With one or more international curricula
Proposed paths (Curricula)
ELECTRONICS FOR INTELLIGENT SYSTEMS, BIG-DATA AND INTERNET OF THINGS
INGEGNERIA ELETTRONICA
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
Today's society is called an information society, pervaded by electronic systems that store, process and transmit information.
The demand on the labour market for this professional profile, in Italy and worldwide, is now much higher than the number of graduates
In electrical engineering, basic disciplines (mathematics and physics) and applied disciplines are combined in an original and creative way.
The curriculum taught in Italian (Electronic Engineering) trains an experienced professional in the field of electronics with wide-ranging competences.
The curriculum taught in English trains professionals who combine basic knowledge with specialised knowledge of Big-Data and IoT systems.
Professional profiles
JOB-RELATED FUNCTIONS
The Second-cycle degree in Electronic Engineering aims to shape professionalscapable of taking on technical and organisational job positions requiring a commandof basic and electronic-related sciences. They may work in design-related andadvanced research environments.
Thus, programme's graduates can work in multiple contexts - mainly orientedaround technology - and can design, follow up on the industrial process, andoversee the maintenance of integrated or distributed electronic systems. Suchsystems focus on information processing, storage and transmission in auser-comprehensible form.
ROLE-RELATED COMPETENCIES
The main skill of programme's graduates is that of managing complex electronicsystems. Skills acquired throughout the degree are therefore relevant to singleelectronic devices and localized circuits & systems, as well as aheterogeneous set of distributed electronic systems operating together to reacha common goal.
Specific skills such as a command of physical phenomena, analytic andsimulation modelling and optimization methods will be used to manage the project'scomplexity as well as systems implementation and maintenance.
JOB PROSPECTS:
Typically, graduates take on roles in the fields of innovation and productionmanagement, advanced design, planning and programming, and complex systemmanagement. They can work on their own or at manufacturing companies, servicecompanies and state-owned bodies.
Graduates can get a job working for firms designing and producingelectronic and optoelectronic components, systems and infrastructures,including sensor systems. Such companies operate in various fields such asmanufacturing or data processing for civil, industrial or information purposes,in which graduates' assignments may span from design and research todevelopment and management.
Moreover, other potential employers may also be telecommunicationsproviders, electronic and optoelectronic systems' providers, service providers,national and international authorities and watchdogs, medical equipment manufacturers,and companies using electronic technology and infrastructure to control andautomate their operations.
In Bologna, it should be mentioned that the degree is surrounded by a flourishingindustrial environment full of small and medium enterprises. Capabilitiesaccumulated during the degree programme are widely appreciated not only byelectronic-specific firms, but also by mechanical, service and food-relatedones, all of which are key players in the local industrial environment.
Finally, an international curriculum is consistent with an increasinglyinternational job market, making it possible to work abroad or ininternationally-oriented Italian companies.
Further studies
The Second-cycle degree entitles students to go on to third-cycle studies(PhDs and specialisation schools) and one-year master's programmes (first orsecond level).
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Curriculum Ingegneria elettronica: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Electronics for intelligent systems, big-data and internet of things: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
The programme offers the opportunity to participate in international exchange programmes, spending a study period and taking examinations abroad, as well as to carry out internships and complete your thesis in companies or renowned research centres in Europe and beyond, thus providing a personal and professional enrichment that is highly sought after in today's world of work.
When you can attend the degree programme
27
Nov
2024
Open Day
ELECTRICAL, ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION ENGINEERING AREA | Presentation of the International Master’s degree programmes
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data