Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/8531

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Food Science and Technology
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 8531
Place of teaching
Campus Cesena
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-70 - Food science
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
Interdisciplinary training in food science.
Close contact with the teaching staff and with regional, national and international manufacturing companies.
Teaching based on the results of research conducted within the framework of regional, national and international competitive projects.
Opportunity to participate in exchange programmes abroad at internationally renowned research institutes or companies.
Organised moments of discussion with companies and possibility of conducting an in-company thesis.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled A.Y. 2024-25, 2023-24, 2022-23, 2021-22
Experiences abroad
As far as experiences abroad are concerned, the programme offers the possibility of internships and thesis-related activities through the implementation of exchange schemes (e.g. Erasmus, Overseas). Moreover, the programme also offers scholarships for participation in Blended Intensive Programmes (BIP) at qualified foreign institutions.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data