Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5814

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Food Animal Metabolism and Management in the Circular Economy
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5814
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
                            
                               -  Ozzano dell'Emilia
Language
English
Degree Programme Class
LM-86 - Livestock management
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
International Programmes
Delivered entirely in English
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will acquire new skills for your future career in the animal production sector in a multicultural and international environment.
You will learn the concepts of sustainability applied to livestock farming in all its facets.
You will be exposed to the latest advances in animal production from a circular economy perspective.
You will have a degree opening to you multiple perspectives in both the private sector and the public research at an international level.
You will be an actor, and a key-role player, of the transition of animal production systems towards an improved sustainability.
Professional profiles
ANIMAL PRODUCTION SYSTEMS EXPERT
Function in a professional context:
Animal production systems experts:
- manage the production and organisational aspects of animal production systems according to a circular approach;
- deal with the functional and economic aspects linked to the introduction and management of technical and organisational innovations in animal production systems;
- organise the business functions, including the commercial aspects of organisations working in the animal production sector;
- perform planning and management functions for business development initiatives in the field of animal production;
- manage big data for the economic, social and environmental optimization of breeding system performance;
- develop metabolic efficiency models for the optimization of nutrient use, also with a view to disease prevention, the promotion of animal well-being and the quality of foods of animal origin;
- organise and manage aspects linked to animal feed, genetic improvement, monitoring of well-being and the promotion of health in farm animals.
Competencies associated to the function:
The theoretical and practical knowledge acquired in the course units in the programme aim to develop the following competencies:
- the ability to manage data and information for the purpose of production process optimization;
- the ability to use modelling approaches to manage company resources and processes in a sustainable way;
- the ability to apply economic viability assessment methods, organised according to a circular model and applied to business choices;
- the ability to identify and manage factors that, independently or in combination, affect the environmental sustainability and economic viability of animal production;
- the ability to organise monitoring and control activities to production, reproduction, the state of health and environmental conditions of animal production;
- the ability to calibrate business functions according to the monitoring and control indicators adopted in animal production systems;
- the ability to apply scientific method and draft simple and complex technical and scientific reports;
- the ability to analyse the specific conditions of the context affecting the performance of animal production systems.
Career opportunities:
- Agricultural, zootechnical and aquaculture companies.
- Manufacturers of technical equipment and management systems for animal productions.
- Professional and consulting firms providing animal production services and environmental services to agriculture and animal husbandry.
- Technical assistance and training services for the agrifood sector;
- Certification and control institutions working in the food production sector.
- National and international public bodies and institutions working in the animal production sector.
- Public and private research institutions and universities;
- Governmental and non-governmental bodies working in agricultural development cooperation.
- Producers' associations.
After sitting the related state exam, graduates may register with the Association of Agronomists and Forestry Experts, for freelance activities.
Graduates with a sufficient number of credits in appropriate sectors may, as provided for by the legislation in force, sit the entrance exams for secondary education courses.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies ( Phd and Specialization Schools) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024/2025
Experiences abroad
The programme offers the opportunity to carry out internships in international organisations and participate in exchange programmes. Ad-hoc Erasmus bilateral agreement have been activated with EU Agriculture and Veterinary Sciences Universities. These experiences offer direct contact with international realities providing a real advantage in the international labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
27
Nov
2024
Open Day
AGRICULTURE, FOOD SCIENCES AND VETERINARY AREA | Presentation of the International Master’s degree programmes
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data