Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5812

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Human Nutrition, Well-Being And Health
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5812
Place of teaching
Campus Rimini
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-61 - Nutrition
Type of access
Restricted access - entrance exam (105 places available)
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will acquire multidisciplinary skills in areas related to nutrition, individual and community wellbeing, and healthy lifestyles.
You will acquire advanced skills for training in Human Nutrition and Health Products.
You will acquire advanced skills in research/development of functional foods, food supplements, nutraceuticals and medical foods.
You will benefit from a comfortable study environment in a dynamic and welcoming campus in Rimini.
You will learn how to deal competently and professionally with future challenges in the field of nutrition, health, individual and population well-being.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024/25
Experiences abroad
As part of its foreign experiences, the programme offers the opportunity to carry out internships abroad at international organisations/universities and to participate in exchange programmes. These experiences will put you directly in contact with international concerns, thereby enriching your skills.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data