Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/6066

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Industrial Chemistry
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 6066
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-71 - Industrial chemistry
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
An approach to chemistry that addresses the scale-up from the laboratory to industrial production.
An environment that will give you an open-minded and professional view of the future of chemistry and related technology.
A programme that collaborates in research activities with numerous Italian and foreign companies.
A thesis internship at a laboratory or company, also abroad, to help develop new technologies for sustainable processes.
One degree, many professions: you will soon find a job in companies (not only chemical), in services and in private and public organisations.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Piano didattico per studenti immatricolati nell'a.a. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
As part of its foreign experiences, the programme offers the opportunity to carry out internships abroad at international universities and to participate in exchange programmes. These experiences allow direct contact with international concerns, enriching your understanding of global dynamics and providing a real advantage in the international labour market.
My study experience was a personal turning point that taught me to observe reality analytically, allowing me to improve my knowledge. I found being able to put my knowledge into practice in the Course's different practical activities very useful.
Maria Rossi, graduate
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data