Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5698

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Information, Cultures and Media Organisation
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5698
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-19 - Information and publishing systems
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Proposed paths (Curricula)
CULTURE DELL'INFORMAZIONE
ORGANIZZAZIONE DEI MEDIA
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will acquire knowledge and skills that will help you enter the communication and media field professionally.
You will have access to a wide range of seminars and workshops held by qualified figures in the information and media sector.
You will understand the evolution of the contemporary media landscape and the development of digital, online and mobile communication at the national and global level.
You will learn about social media techniques and platforms, understanding their languages, tools, algorithms, operations and strategies.
You will gain specialist skills to understand and strategically manage communication flows and visual, audio, audiovisual and digital content.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Curriculum Culture dell'Informazione: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Organizzazione e Media: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
The programme offers you the opportunity to carry out activities abroad, for example work placements in international organisations and exchange programmes such as the Erasmus scheme. You can prepare your thesis abroad, taking your research to an international dimension. In an increasingly globalised media system, these are important experiences both for your studies and for your professional specialisation.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data