Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/6114

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Innovation and Organization of Culture and the Arts
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 6114
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
English
Degree Programme Class
LM-76 - Environmental and cultural economics
Type of access
Restricted access - entrance exam (50 places available)
International Programmes
Delivered entirely in English
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
A programme that aims to train leaders of cultural organisations and creative industries worldwide.
Based on a strong interdisciplinary approach encompassing management studies, humanities and practical skills.
The ideal environment to develop teamwork skills and improve your entrepreneurial skills
The international dimension is reinforced by exchange possibilities and international guests.
Practical, research-based approach: a heterogeneous faculty with academic and professional expertise
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
The programme offers the opportunity to follow courses abroad by participating in exchange programmes with foreign universities; you will be able to do internships at international cultural and artistic organisations. These experiences enrich your understanding of global dynamics and provide a real advantage in the international labour market.
GIOCA stands out because it conveys with passion and curiosity what is happening in the world about managing and innovating in the field of culture, arts and creativity with the ability to analyze the local contexts. Furthermore, the heterogeneous group of professors and students who go along with you for two years will have a fundamental value.
Giulia Naldi, graduate 2017
When you can attend the degree programme
3
Dec
2024
Open Day
MANAGEMENT AND BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION AREA | Presentation of the International Master’s degree programmes
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data