Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/6058

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
International relations and diplomatic affairs
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 6058
Place of teaching
Campus Forlì
Language
English, Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-52 - International relations
Type of access
Restricted access - entrance exam (140 places available)
International Programmes
With one or more international curricula
Proposed paths (Curricula)
POLITICA E SICUREZZA INTERNAZIONALE
TRANSNATIONAL CHALLENGES AND GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will learn more about international politics, economics and law, the study of world regions and major international security issues.
You will acquire multidisciplinary skills enabling you to analyse and manage issues related to international relations and global society.
You will learn and apply critical analysis and public communication of political and social phenomena in the global world.
You will acquire multidisciplinary skills, also in English, which are increasingly useful for the national and international labour market.
Multi-professionalism: geopolitical analyst; foreign policy journalist; diplomat; official in international organisations and NGOs.
Professional profiles
OFFICIAL OF INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATIONS
Function in a professional context:
The official ofinternational organisations:
-       Supports or manages activities relating to the representation, protection,and promotion of the (public and private) interests of their own country or organisationinternationally, with the task of analysing and defining public policies,assistance, intermediation, and negotiation. The officials of internationalorganisations may perform activities in political, economic, commercial, social,and cultural sectors.
-       With management functions, coordinates administrative activities linkedto international fields, analyses and interprets decision-making contexts, andidentifies organisational efficiency and innovation solutions.
Competencies associated with the function:
-        Must have the skills required by the relevant competitions and a completecommand of English and at least one-second foreign language.    -        Has specialist historical, legal, political, economic and languageknowledge of geographical and thematic areas.    -        Can interact with experts in law, economics, and finance.    -        Can adapt to different events and situations, interpret them in apolitical, economic, legal, and cultural key, and assess them in internationalissues.    -        Knows how to draw up and promote their solutions (problem-solving) ingroups of experts (team management) and a complex, interdisciplinary and riskcontext (risk-taking), and can manage social networks (networking).    -        Has persuasion, mediation, negotiation skills (bargaining) andhigh-level oral and written communication skills.    -        Uses computer programs for open-source intelligence (mind maps, semanticweb), is familiar with national and international information databases, andhas a good command of strategic analysis and planning, context analysis, impactanalysis and game theory tools.
Employment opportunities:
Diplomatic careeror official of international organisations such as the European Union or theUnited Nations, through competitive selection.
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS REPORTER
Function in a professional context:
-      The International BusinessReporter:
-      Collects, reports and commentson news and events of international relevance published in newspapers,periodicals, radio, television, websites, and other mass media.
-       Produces studies, analytical dossiers, consultancy, and seminars for institutional bodies,businesses, representation bodies, national and international researchinstitutes, and (conventional and new) media on international topics ofstrategic interest.
-        Interview other people on issues of international importance.    -        Writes editorials and expresses opinions on facts and events ofinternational importance.    -        Reviews, selects, and organises articles and other information materialsfor publication in compliance with privacy laws.    -        Acquires, selects, and processes information on international events,turning it into a finished product that may be a press release, news article orTV report.    -        Monitors, gathers, and organises information and data on theinternational political, institutional, economic, and social context, then usesthem to produce original (historical and prospective) analyses, essays,specialist articles, and research.   Competencies associated with the function:   TheInternational Business Reporter:    -         Understands the operating mechanisms of the international system atpolitical, legal, historical, economic, and social levels, and can perform acomparative analysis between different countries.    -         Has in-depth knowledge of one or more foreign languages in addition toEnglish.    -         Has the general skills of a journalist and knows how to developinterpersonal skills within multicultural and social contexts, managing socialnetworks (networking).    -         Has a strong sense of curiosity and flexibility in their approach toproblems, strong analytical skills, and the ability to assess different issuescritically.   Employment opportunities:   New mediainclude blogs, websites, web radio and web TV, and conventional media includeradio, television, and newspapers. The journalist and freelance journalismprofessions are governed by the related professional associations and Italianlaw, requiring further training and internships.       SPECIALIST IN INTERNATIONAL POLICIES   Function in a professional context:   The Specialistin International Policies:    -         Studies, describes and interprets the origin, development, functioningand logic of the systems of economic, financial, and political relations amongStates and other actors in world politics, the economic, financial, andpolitical decisions, their interrelations with public opinion, the activitiesof governments, international organisations, and firms.    -         Coordinates the conception, processing, drafting, funding,implementation, promotion, monitoring, and evaluation of national, international,and supranational programmes of public relevance on issues such as conflictresolution, environmental protection, migration flow management, and welfaresystem sustainability.    -         Advises, dialogues, and holds relations with executive, managerial, political,and administrative levels of complex public and private national andinternational organisations and organisations with which they have frequent contacts.    -         Develops and uses methodologies suitable for implementing and assessingthe impact of national, international, and European public policy, enhancingtheir public impact.   Competencies associated with the function:   The Specialistin International Policies:    -         Understands the national, international, and European internationalinstitutional and political system, its operating mechanisms andinterrelationship with other types of systems, the operating mechanisms ofcomplex organisations and their decision-making processes, and thecharacteristics and prospects of global governance.    -         Knows how to analyse and interpret national and international decisions'political and organisational context. Knows how to manage a public policyproject and monitor its results (project management and evaluation), promotesits objectives to national, European, and international public institutions andinforms public opinion via digital communications, the World Wide Web, and themass media.    -         Knows how to assess the legal implications, contacts with legal experts,and financial implications, keeping contact with financial experts, as well asthe operational requirements of projects.    -         Applies critical thinking and knows many ways to solve problems. Knowshow to use logical and reasoning skills to identify the strengths andweaknesses of processes and solutions, developing empathy: knows how tounderstand the reasons, actions, and motivations of the behaviour of others.    -         Is highly creative with excellent interpersonal skills when discussing, communicating,and negotiating on behalf of administrations or private firms with publicadministrations at national or European level, and knows how to use socialnetworking.    -         Can source, read, and interpret planning documents (laws, proposals,decisions, programme descriptions, tender regulations) issued by national,European and international institutions.    -         Uses computer programs for open-source intelligence (mind maps, semanticweb) and has a good command of strategic analysis and planning, contextanalysis, impact analysis, scenario analysis and game theory tools.   Employment opportunities:   Think tanks,research institutions, communications, PR and consultancy companies and firms,trade associations, non-profit organisations, and local, regional, and nationalpublic administrations.       PEACEKEEPER   Function in a professional context:   ThePeacekeeper:    -         Performs conflict prevention, construction, peace-making, peacekeepingand peacebuilding activities.    -         Provides humanitarian aid, organises human security systems, promotesdisarmament and demobilisation initiatives, economic reconstruction andconfidence-building, protecting human rights through electoral monitoring andobservation.    -         Coordinates activities for creating, drafting, funding, implementing,monitoring, evaluating, and assessing schemes of international andsupranational programmes on different topics.   Competencies associated with the function:    -         International political skills for identifying the causes of conflictsand their resolution, as well as international relations and developmentcooperation, political science, and international security methodologies.    -         Knows how to apply conflict resolution and peacebuilding techniques.    -         Has analytical, problem-solving, persuasion, negotiation, and projectmanagement skills.    -         Has excellent knowledge of the English language, preferably with that ofthe language and culture of the country of destination and is very able toadapt to international and intercultural contexts.   Employment opportunities:   National andinternational civil organisations and voluntary associations. In some cases,further education may be required.       EXPORT SALES STRATEGY MANAGER   Function in a professional context:   The exportsales strategy manager:    -         Helps to define the marketing and export strategies of firms and thecharacteristics of the sales and distribution network, focusing on foreignmarkets concerning geopolitical conditions.    -         Can conduct research and assess analyses of international marketconditions, specifically regarding risk situations, potential(in)compatibilities with the goals, and agreements relating to problematicinternational situations in the countries concerned.    -         Can assess the costs and benefits of collaboration and merger agreementswith firms at national and international levels.   Competencies associated with the function:   The exportsales strategy manager:    -         Speaks English and another foreign language.    -         Has a general knowledge of the most critical processes within moderncompanies, particularly the economic, financial and political issues eachcountry faces.    -         Knows how to carry out empirical studies in international contexts andgeographical areas using social science methods.    -         Can assess and weigh up country risk situations.    -         Has specific skills and conduct, including significant negotiating, workorganisation and planning skills.    -         Is flexible and able to adapt; has excellent human resource managementskills and practical economic and soft skills.   Employment opportunities:   Public andprivate business trade associations are focusing on internationalisation.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Curriculum Politica e Sicurezza internazionale: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Transnational challenges and global governance: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
You will be able to take part in curricular internships at international organisations in Italy and abroad, as well as the Erasmus and Overseas schemes. These experiences allow direct contact with international concerns, enriching your understanding of global political and social phenomena and providing a real advantage in the international labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data