Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/6057

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Intepreting
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 6057
Place of teaching
Campus Forlì
Language
English, Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-94 - Interpreting and specialized translating
Type of access
Restricted access - entrance exam (47 places available)
International Programmes
With one or more international curricula
Proposed paths (Curricula)
INTERPRETAZIONE DI CONFERENZA
INTERPRETING AND TECHNOLOGIES FOR COMMUNICATION
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You get to choose between two curricula – ConfInt with Italian and two other languages; and InTeCo with English, Italian and one further language
Classes are taught in small groups. Trainers – who are professional interpreters – know you by your name, and their feedback is tailored to you.
You get to practice what you learn, during classes and also in conferences and internships where you interpret for real audiences.
You develop skills that you can immediately put to use on the job market, working freelance or in-house at companies or institutions.
You will find cutting-edge facilities and a window on the world, with several foreign exchanges and connections with the EU’s interpreting services.
Professional profiles
CONFERENCE, DIALOGUE AND AUDIOVISUAL INTERPRETER
Function in a professional context
Conference, dialogue and audiovisual interpreters translate oral texts for the benefit of recipients who speak a language other than that of the speaker(s).
In this role they:
- interpret for the benefit of any number of people (even large audiences), in person or remotely, at conventions, conferences, meetings held in person or broadcast over the media, in all the conference interpreting modes (simultaneous and consecutive with notes, whispered interpreting, sight translation);
- interpret for two people or very small groups taking turns speaking different languages, in person or remotely, during interviews or restricted meetings, in all the modes of dialogue interpreting (consecutive with or without notes, whispered interpreting, sight translation);
- interpret speeches or other recorded oral material, both monological and dialogical, in all the modes of audiovisual interpreting (voice-over, respeaking).
Skills associated with the function
These roles require advanced translation skills to ensure interlingual/intercultural oral communication in specialised fields (e.g.political-institutional, economic-legal, technological-scientific discourses).
In particular, the following competences and skills are required:
- Advanced skills in dialogue and conference interpreting, including in the remote mode or over the media.
- Advanced cultural and linguistic competences in Italian and the other two languages studied, applied to the analysis of texts and speeches;
- In-depth knowledge of the particularities of sectorial languages and their fields of reference;
- In-depth training in the theory and techniques of monological interpreting (simultaneous and consecutive with notes, but also chuchotage and sight translation), dialogical interpreting (consecutive without notes and chuchotage, but also consecutive with notes and sight translation) and audiovisual interpreting (voice-over and respeaking);
- Ability to analyse the communicative setting in which the interpreters operate, including the priorities and the communicative positioning and needs of the other people involved;
- Ability to use computer aids indispensable to the interpreting profession, aimed in particular at information mining, creation of linguistic corpora and the extraction of information for the creation of glossaries and terminology databases;
- Ability to use traditional and computerised research and documentation tools;
- Ability to conceive, manage and evaluate interpreting team projects that require the linguistic and operational skills of several professionals;
- Critical and self-reflective skills and professional ethics.
Where the role is performed primarily in highly specialised areas, greater specialisation may be required.
Career Opportunities
Self-employed or employed professional activity in companies, language service agencies, institutions, public and private, national and international organisations.
EXPERT INTECHNOLOGY-MEDIATED INTERPRETATION
Function in a professional context
Experts in technology-mediated interpretation edit and adapt oral texts, ex-post and in real time, using specific technologies.
In this role they:
- use advanced technologies in multilingual,multicultural and multimedia communicative settings, in person and remotely;
- offer consultancy, training and support for technological innovation in interpreting;
- analyse and edit the output of automatic interpretation systems and automatic transcriptions of spoken language;
- adapt and recreate multimedia content for corporateand institutional communication, preserving the desired effect across different languages and cultures.
They work mainly in the fields of audiovisual media,training in interpreting technologies, and communicative events with participants who speak different languages, in person or remotely.
Skill sassociated with the function
These roles require advanced skills in the use of cutting-edge technologies, including those based on artificial intelligence,for interpretation and interlingual/intercultural oral communication, both in real time and as an adaptation, and for the creation of multimedia content for corporate and institutional communication.
In particular, the following competences and skills are required:
- In-depth understanding of the processes of dialogue and conference interpreting, in person and remotely;
- Advanced cultural and linguistic competences in the languages studied, applied to the analysis of texts and their communicative effect;
- Advanced ability to use computer-assisted interpreting tools, both in the preparation of events (extraction and preparation of glossaries) and during the events themselves (CAI tools proper), through to the real-time postediting and editing of the outputs of automatic spoken language interpretation and transcription systems, including those based on artificial intelligence;
- Skills in the creation, editing and intercultural and interlingual adaptation of audiovisual texts for institutional and corporate communication;
- Critical and self-reflective skills and professional ethics.
Where the role is performed primarily in highly specialised areas, greater specialisation may be required.
Career Opportunities
Self-employed or employed professional activity in companies, language service agencies, institutions, public and private, national and international organisations.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Curriculum Conference Interpreting: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Interpreting and Technologies for Communication: for student enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
Students have the opportunity to spend time abroad at one or more of the world’s top Universities offering compatible courses, through Erasmus+ and Overseas programmes, bilateral agreements and special funding for working at one’s final thesis abroad. Additionally, EMCI students have access to short-stay exchanges with other EMCI member universities.
When you can attend the degree programme
6
Dec
2024
Open Day
LANGUAGES AND LITERATURES, INTERPRETING AND TRANSLATION AREA | Presentation of the International Master’s degree programmes
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data