Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/6051

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Italian Studies and European Literary Cultures
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 6051
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
English, Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-14 - Modern philology
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
International Programmes
With one or more international curricula, Double/Multiple degree
UNIVERSITÉ DE STRASBOURG
,
IVANE JAVAKHISHVILI TBILISI STATE UNIVERSITY
,
CHEIKH ANTA DIOP DE DAKAR
,
UNIVERSIDADE DE LISBOA
,
UNIVERSITÉ DE HAUTE-ALSACE
,
ARISTOTELEIO PANEPISTIMIO THESSALONIKIS
,
UNIVERSITY OF MUMBAI
Proposed paths (Curricula)
CULTURE LETTERARIE EUROPEE
ITALIAN STUDIES
ITALIANISTICA
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
The training is broad and varied: the programme is divided into three curricula, two of which are international.
The Italian Studies curriculum offers a wide choice of subjects that develop the core teachings of the programme from different perspectives.
The international Italian Studies curriculum takes an interdisciplinary approach to Italian culture; classes are held in English.
The European Literary Cultures (Erasmus Mundus) curriculum allows students to obtain a multiple degree according to the mobility plan chosen.
The programme offers continuous interaction with the world of work and interweaves the study of traditional disciplines with the development of soft skills.
Professional profiles
CULTURE MANAGEMENT EXPERT
Function in a professionalcontext
Culture management experts acquire, assess and guarantee the preservationof artefacts of social, historical, cultural and artistic significance,including through promotional activities.
The professional figure of the Expert:
- is involved in the organisation of institutions and culturalactivities (events, museums, exhibitions) and curates their promotion;
- elaborates and coordinates linguistic-cultural projects,activities and research as part of language and integration policies, includingon a European and international level.
To obtain more autonomy, higher levels of responsibility in theirjobs and learn to master the methods and instruments that support theiractivity, graduates can be asked to acquire additional competencies by takingpost-degree vocational courses, first or second level M.A. courses and internships.
Skills associated with thefunction
- specific knowledge, abilities and skills in social and humanitiesareas;
- ability to select and promote high-level cultural activities,including those relating to the specific social and cultural context in whichthey operate;
- transversal competencies involving communication and relationshipskills and organisational, management and planning skills, according to thelevel of autonomy and responsibility, the organisation and working methodsadopted and the main interlocutors (colleagues, other professionals andclients/users);
- ability to operate in international contexts and understand themulticultural aspects of European and extra-European cultures.
Career Opportunities
Bodies, companies, public and private institutions and third sectororganisations (including Foundations) that conserve, valorise and promotecultural, artistic, literary and linguistic heritage, organise public eventsand cultural activities.
Graduates with sufficient credits in appropriate subject groups,will be able to take entrance exams to training programmes to teach, inaccordance with the applicable legislation.
EDITOR
Function in a professionalcontext
Editors apply their linguistic, literary and cultural knowledge to createand review text before it is published (paper, audio-visual, multimedia).
Editor professional profile:
- performs various activities in the traditional and onlinepublishing world related to text editing (e.g. team management, preliminaryresearch, promotion of initiatives, etc.);
- writes informative and advertising texts on goods and services,which are printed or broadcasted on the radio, television or via othercommunication media;
- writes professionally for the journalism, publishing and advertisingsector;
- offers consulting services for the creation of manuals, guides,technical appendixes, promotional sheets, informative text, instructionbooklets for consumer goods, artisanal, industrial and commercial machines,products and equipment.
To obtain more autonomy, higher levels of responsibility in theirjobs and learn to master the methods and instruments that support theiractivities, graduates can be asked to acquire additional competencies by takingpost-degree vocational courses, first or second level M.A. courses andinternships.
Skills associated with thefunction
- specific knowledge, abilities and skills in social and humanitiesareas;
- special communication abilities and learning skills in one or moreprofessional sectors;
- self-learning and continuous professional updating abilities;
- transversal competencies involving relationship, management andplanning skills, according to the level of autonomy and responsibility, theorganisation and working methods adopted and the main interlocutors(colleagues, other professionals and clients/users).
Career Opportunities
- Companies in the publishing, journalism, advertising andprofessional writing, editorial and journalistic sectors, in Italy and abroad,including online/web publishing.
Graduates with sufficient credits in appropriate subject groups,will be able to take entrance exams to training programmes to teach, inaccordance with the applicable legislation.
LEXICOGRAPHER
Function in a professionalcontext
Lexicographers conduct research and studies on grammar andterminology and analyse the interaction between language and ITC.
Lexicographer professional profile:
- coordinates projects and activities in the lexicography andgrammar study sector;
- collaborates in the writing of dictionaries and lexicographyworks, vocabularies and linguistic manuals, carrying out specialist studies andresearches, compiling entries and headwords;
- operates in the linguistic-information technology sector, withparticular reference to the processing, elaboration and communication ofempiric data.
To obtain more autonomy, higher levels of responsibility in theirjobs and learn to master the methods and instruments that support theiractivities, graduates can be asked to acquire additional competencies throughinternships.
Skills associated with thefunction
- specific knowledge, abilities and skills in linguistic, social andhumanities areas;
- specialisation and learning skills in one or more professionalsectors;
- adequate transversal competencies involving communication andrelationship skills, organisational, management planning skills, according tothe level of autonomy and responsibility, the organisation and working methodsadopted and the main interlocutors (colleagues, other professionals andclients/users).
Career Opportunities
- public, private and third sector companies who producedictionaries, manuals, electronic resources in the traditional and onlinepublishing sector;
- companies specialised in automated language processing.
Graduates with sufficient credits in appropriate subject groups,will be able to take entrance exams to training programmes to teach, inaccordance with the applicable legislation.
Writer/Essayist
Function in a professionalcontext
Writers/Essayists conceive, write and offer the public professionalcreative and argumentative work.
Writer/Essayist professional profile:
- produces content as an independent writer for paper-based, on-lineand any other media publishing sector;
- writes original content for traditional and on-line publishingcompanies, in Italy and abroad, targeting general or specific audiences (forexample, first and second level primary and secondary school teachers andstudents; university lecturers and students; users and experts in variouscultural fields; international communicators and mediators).
To obtain more autonomy, higher levels of responsibility in theirjobs and learn to master the methods and instruments that support theiractivities, graduates can be asked to acquire additional competencies throughpost-degree vocational courses.
Skills associated with thefunction
- knowledge of the needs of the world of culture in all itsdifferent articulations, in Italy and abroad;
- ability to write in a clear, precise and persuasive manner, andcommunicate with professionalism and originality;
- ability to formulate simple and complex text, from newspaperarticles to short essays, books and multi-volume works.
Career Opportunities
As self-employed professionals, Writers/Essayists offer their workto publishing companies, companies in the editorial sector, newspapers andmagazines, institutions and bodies who need to communicate with the public viapaper-based, audio-visual, television, electronic and multimedia content and othermeans of communication.
Graduates with sufficient credits in appropriate subject groups,will be able to take entrance exams to training programmes to teach, inaccordance with the applicable legislation.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Curriculum Italianistica: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum European literary cultures (Erasmus Mundus): for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Italian studies: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
The programme offers various study, internship or thesis experiences abroad within the framework of exchange programmes and specific projects with European and non-European countries, both in the academic and the professional spheres. These experiences make it possible to project what has been learnt during the programme into a multicultural and multilingual context.
My study experience was a personal turning point that taught me to observe reality analytically, allowing me to improve my knowledge. I found being able to put my knowledge into practice in the Course's different practical activities very useful.
Maria Rossi, graduate
When you can attend the degree programme
28
Nov
2024
Open Day
HUMANITIES AREA: ARTS, FASHION AND LITERARY STUDIES | Presentation of the International Master’s degree programmes
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Sito di curriculum:
CURRICULUM ITALIAN STUDIES
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data