Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/9077

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Library and Archive Science
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 9077
Place of teaching
Campus Ravenna
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-5 - Library studies
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will deepen your knowledge of archival heritage and your knowledge of books, documents, archives and libraries
You will be able to take part in an internship or in laboratory activities, which will enable you to develop the competencies you need to enter the world of work.
You will be able to spend time abroad, studying, doing an internship and preparing your thesis at international scientific and professional institutions.
You will contribute to access to culture, reading, documents.
You will gain practical experience through numerous workshops and projects on cultural heritage, both ancient and digital.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
You will be able to spend time abroad, studying, doing an internship and preparing your thesis at international scientific and professional institutions, and participating in exchange programmes. Numerous arrangements are offered by the programme lecturers to foster a direct and dynamic experience with international realities.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data