Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/9246

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Low Carbon Technologies and Sustainable Chemistry
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 9246
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
English
Degree Programme Class
LM-71 - Industrial chemistry
LM-75 - Environmental and land sciences
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
International Programmes
Delivered entirely in English
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
Technologies: Develop technologies for climate change mitigation
Circular economy: Acquire value chain competences on circular economy, from material development to urban mining and recycling
Sustainability: Evaluate economic and environmental sustainability in energy, chemical and material production cycles
Bioeconomy: Expand value chain competences on bioeconomy, from agronomy to bio-refinery and biobased building blocks production
Experimental work: Labs, practical learning methods, compulsory internship and experimental thesis
Professional profiles
Technologist for the development of sustainable low carbon products and processes
role in a work context:
Professional activities:
1. Research, development and management of processes, technologies, products, materials and sustainable low carbon formulations;
2. Assessment and monitoring of sustainability and environmental impact.
In the context of the professional opportunities proposed, the graduate in "Low Carbon Technologies and Sustainable Chemistry" (LoCaTe):
1.1 Plans, designs, creates and manages new processes, product technologies, materials and formulations and improves those that already exist in terms of environmental impact, the availability of raw materials, the development of value chains from renewable sources and biomass, and the closure of cycles, in line with the characteristics of the territory and company policy requirements and in response to specific customer requests and the plans of public bodies.
1.2 Supports management in the selection of agro-forestry or geological raw materials for the development of materials, products and processes.
1.3 Analyses energy efficiency and applies energy-saving strategies and chemical technologies for the production and use of energy from renewable sources.
1.4 Analyses the sustainability of processes, products and materials and assesses the use of key enabling technologies for improving the sustainability of processes and materials. Carries out both pure and applied research in multi-cultural and multi-language environments.
2.1 Based on territorial specifications, analysis of the value chain and existing products and processes, designs and performs assessments and monitors environmental risks and the responses to environmental pressures, combining geological, biological and ecological competencies with the ability to apply chemical technologies and techniques to the analysis of processes and life cycles.
2.2 Guarantees the technical support needed to record environmental impacts and analyses in the territory and in work environments.
2.3 Supports management in the definition of environmental risks and assessment of the impact of production and on selection of the most appropriate development strategies and key enabling technologies in order to improve processes and the value chain.
2.4 Prepares proposals for implementing and improving procedures for the assessment of products and processes in order to comply with the European regulatory framework, with particular reference to REACH, and the European guidelines on pollutant emissions and carbon intensity.
competencies associated with the role:
The second-cycle degree programme graduate has:
- Knowledge of the fundamental principles of chemistry in the various core, industrial and process sectors;
- Knowledge of the science and technology of the environment and the territory, in the various sectors of biology, geology and agronomy, as they relate to chemistry, environmental sustainability and anthropogenic processes;
- Knowledge of low carbon industrial and biotechnological processes;
- Knowledge of the available resources and processes for the production of energy, fuel, chemicals and materials for their reuse, in the context of the closure of cycles and their environmental impact on the territory;
- Knowledge of methodologies for assessing improvements in the efficiency of energetic, chemical and material production processes;
- Knowledge of methods for analysing the sustainability of processes and assessing the applicability of key enabling technologies for improving their sustainability;
- Knowledge of methodologies for assessing and monitoring environmental risks with reference to the characteristics of the territory and the working environment;
- Knowledge of methodologies for assessing environmental and economic issues and opportunities for the strategic development of materials, products and processes;
- Knowledge of the investigative methodologies used in research and industrial laboratories.
career opportunities:
Graduates in "Low Carbon Technologies and Sustainable Chemistry" (LoCaTe) works in the sector of sustainable and low carbon technologies and the management of environmental assets. Graduates work in public and private bodies and firms dedicated to the green and sustainable economy, the circular economy and renewable energies, in every area in which it is useful to adopt an approach that combines bio-geo-chemical cycles and environmental sustainability with anthropogenic cycles. In particular, graduates are employed in:
- Analysis laboratories, management of the environment and installations, consultancy firms;
- Public administration, public and private bodies;
- Service companies, multi-utilities.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
The programme offers the possibility of participating in internships in international organisations and in exchange programmes abroad. The possibility of making direct contact with international concerns will enrich your cultural background and give you a real advantage in the labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
3
Dec
2024
Open Day
CHEMISTRY AND INDUSTRIAL CHEMISTRY AREA | Presentation of the International Master’s degree programmes
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data