Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/8843

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Management for Social Economy
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 8843
Place of teaching
Campus Forlì
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-77 - Management
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
International Programmes
Double/Multiple degree
NEOMA BUSINESS SCHOOL
,
ICN BUSINESS SCHOOL - NANCY
,
UNIVERSITAT DE VALENCIA
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
The social economy is recognised by Europe as the sector with the highest rate of growth.
This was the first programme on social economy in Italy and is still one of the few in the country.
The programme offers ample job opportunities.
You will be offered valuable opportunities through the faculty’s numerous contacts in the social economy
Enrolling for this programme means becoming part of a highly motivated student community.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato diricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
In addition to the traditional exchange programmes (Erasmus, Overseas), the programme participates in three double degree programmes, one of which is reserved exclusively to its students. In addition, it gives you the possibility of conducting your thesis and/or internship abroad. It offers crash courses to enable you to fill any gaps in your education, not only in relation to more business-related subjects, but also to the English language.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data