Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/8857

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Marine Biology
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 8857
Place of teaching
Campus Ravenna
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-6 - Biology
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
Why study Marine Biology at UNIBO? Since 2021, it is Italy’s leading university in the fields of Biological Science and Geology, Environmental, Earth and Marine Science.
It offers a multidisciplinary overview with sound theoretical foundations and competitive technical skills.
It offers a highly customisable theoretical-practical training programme, rich in laboratory-based, at-sea and even diving experiences.
It adopts innovative teaching methods whereby students forge their own education and develop their own aptitudes
It prepares students for the world of work, in various public and private sectors, as well as for further academic pursuits.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
A network of international collaborations and projects by lecturers, along with active partnership agreements and various scholarship opportunities (e.g. Erasmus+ Study, Erasmus+ Internship Mobility, Overseas), enable students to carry out pre- and post-graduation internships and to prepare their thesis at foreign institutions and companies.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data