Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5724

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Mechanical Engineering
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5724
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-33 - Mechanical engineering
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
International Programmes
Double/Multiple degree
UNIVERSITA' DI DUISBURG - ESSEN
Proposed paths (Curricula)
BIOMECCANICA
IMPIANTI INDUSTRIALI
MACCHINE A FLUIDO
MECCANICA DELL’AUTOMAZIONE E ROBOTICA
MOTOVEICOLO
PROGETTAZIONE MECCANICA E MODELLAZIONE
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
Your training will be completed in close synergy with first-rate companies and research institutions.
Internships and theses: a unique opportunity to build your future in the world of work.
Training is in line with the qualifications and professional profiles required by the labour market: choose your pathway
From theory to practice: Learning by Doing activities and Unibo Motorsport and Uniboat initiatives ensure challenging projects right from the start
Our students learn to translate ideas into actions and projects.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Curriculum Macchine a fluido: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Impianti industriali: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Progettazione meccanica e modellazione: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Biomeccanica: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Meccanica dell'automazione e robotica: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Motoveicolo: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
A wide range of exchange programmes are available to provide students with an international experience, both in Europe and in non-EU countries, including internships and thesis projects, with specific scholarships. A double degree agreement with the University of Duisburg-Essen (Germany) is in place for students in the field of 'Mechanics of Automation and Robotics'.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data