Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5703

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Media, Public and Corporate Communication
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5703
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-59 - Advertising and communication for the public and private sectors
LM-19 - Information and publishing systems
Type of access
Restricted access - entrance exam (140 places available)
Proposed paths (Curricula)
COMUNICAZIONE E IMPRESA
COMUNICAZIONE PUBBLICA E SOCIALE
GIORNALISMO E COMUNICAZIONE POLITICA
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will acquire theoretical and methodological skills that are indispensable for developing professionalism in all areas of communication.
You will take part in workshops aimed at providing practical skills and fundamental design skills in the various fields of communication.
You will use state-of-the-art tools and software for the production and post-production of digital audiovisual content.
You will develop an in-depth knowledge of the dynamics of communication and information in digital environments.
You will become part of the Compass community, also active through social media, which is invaluable for developing relationships and learning about opportunities.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Curriculum - Comunicazione e impresa - Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum - Giornalismo e comunicazione politica - Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 22024-25
Curriculum - Comunicazione pubblica e sociale - Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
The programme offers the opportunity to participate in exchange programmes at European and non-European universities with a specific vocation for the study of communication. These experiences provide insight into the global dynamics of transformation of media systems, preparing students for a highly internationalised labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data