Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/phd-professional-masters-specialisation-schools-and-other-programmes/professional-master/2024-2025-1/minimally-invasive-gynecologic-surgery-3

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
PhDs and Professional Masters programmes, Specialisations and advanced training
>
Professional Master's programmes
>
2024-2025
>
Minimally invasive gynecologic surgery
Professional Master programme in
Minimally invasive gynecologic surgery - 5552
Call for applications
Details
Characteristics
Admission requirements
Teaching
Contacts
Code
5552
Academic Year
2024-2025
Subject area
Health
Campus
Bologna
Level
Second
Director
Renato Seracchioli
Duration
Annual
Teaching methods
Conventional
Language
English
Cost
€ 4.200,00
Instalments
the first instalment amounts to € 2.000,00 (to be paid by the deadline 30/01/2025); the second instalment amounts to € 2.200,00 (to be paid by 30/04/2025).
Application deadline
Jan 07, 2025
Enrolment start and end
From 16/01/2025 to 30/01/2025
Main Department
Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences - DIMEC
Professional Profile
Pursuant to Decree no. 270 of 22 October 2004 of the Ministry of Education, University and Research, for academic year 2024/2025, Alma Mater Studiorum – Università di Bologna, Administrative office of Bologna, will run a II-level Professional Master’s Programme in “Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery”.
The Professional Master’s Programme has been set up on the proposal of the Department of DIMEC and in cooperation with Fondazione Alma Mater
The Professional Master’s Programme aims to to provide candidates with theoretical and practical knowledge of minimally invasive gynecological surgical procedures, particularly laparoscopic, hysteroscopic, and robotic.
Note
Places reserved for professional staff and foreign language instructors of the University of Bologna:
On part-time Professional Master’s Programmes only, two places in excess of the maximum number are reserved for professional staff and foreign language instructors of the University of Bologna. Such students will be exempted from paying tuition fees, net of any fixed costs. Preferably before registering for selection, please complete the form available on the intranet page Measures for participation of professional staff and foreign language instructors in postgraduate programmes recognised by the University of Bologna. APOS will inform the applicants directly of the outcome of their request.
Number of participants
Min: 8
                        Max: 16
Credits
60
International Professional Master's programme
Yes
Admission qualifications
Medical degree and residency in Gynecology and Obstetrics
Linguistic skills
Good knowledge of the English language
Other requirements
Specialization Degree in Gynecology
Selection criteria
Selection based on candidates' qualifications.
The maximum score given by the Admission Board is 100 points.
The minimum score of 60/100 must be achieved to pass the selection.
In the event of two candidates with the same score, the younger candidate will rank higher.
Place of teaching
Level 1 (asynchronous mode): theoretical e-learning lectures provide multidisciplinary teaching by distinguished faculty.
LEVEL 2 (both in person and remote): intensive training in Bologna University including:
● Various operative procedures demonstrated during live surgery and using didactic, detailed videos.
● Training on pelvic trainers, and the Anatomical demonstration of pelvic anatomy
● Interactive sessions and lectures about evidence-based management of gynecological pathologies.
● Hands-on laparoscopic suture lab.
Class start date January the 31st, 2025, with activation of the e-learning platform.
Theoretical-practical part (both in person and remote) with frontal lectures and live surgery from the operating room from May 12 to 24 at the Sfameni classroom in Pavilion 4 of the S. Orsola Ospital in Bologna with 80% attendance requirement.
Training period to be agreed upon
Study plan
Surgical Anatomy in Gynecology - MED40: Lucia Manzoli
Minimally Invasive Surgery for Benign Pathologies: Simona Del Forno
Minimally Invasive Surgery for Benign Uterine Pathologies - MED40: Alessandro Arena
Endoscopic Reproductive Surgery - MED40: Renato Seracchioli, Raffaella Iodice, Paolo Salucci
Minimally Invasive Surgery for Endometriosis - MED40: Mohamed Mabrouk, Diego Raimondo
Minimally Invasive Surgery for Pelvic Organ Prolapse and for Urinary Incontinence: Maria Cristina Meriggiola, Giulia Borghese
Minimally Invasive Surgery in Gynecologic Oncology: Paolo Casadio
Complications in Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery: Prevention and Management: Renato Seracchioli, Diego Raimondo
Basic and Advanced Laparoscopic Techniques (dissection, suturing,...): Renato Seracchioli, Raffaella Iodice, Paolo Salucci
Internship
LEVEL 3 (in person): training period in a recognized centre
Number of hours: 375. CFUs for stage: 15
Final Project: submit one high-quality research/review of literature and a written report of skills acquired
Segretery Master MIGS
Silvia Cerpolini, Clinica Ostetrica e Ginecologica, Padiglione 4, Policlinico S. Orsola-Malpighi, Via Massarenti 13, 40138 Bologna, Italy.
E-mail
master.gyne@unibo.it
Telephone
+39 051-343934
AlmaLaurea Master’s Degree survey results
Participants opinions
Employment situation
Attachments
Annex 2_ Attachment to the call for applications
[.pdf
         285 KB]