Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/8837

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Music and Theatre Studies
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 8837
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-45 - Musicology and musical heritage
LM-65 - Performing arts and multimedia productions
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Proposed paths (Curricula)
DISCIPLINE DEL TEATRO
DISCIPLINE DELLA MUSICA
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will acquire skills and know-how enabling you to work in the research and dissemination of music and theatre.
You will acquire skills in the editing of texts for music and theatre, for performance purposes and for historical-critical investigations.
You will acquire soft skills that can be applied to designing and curating events in the performing arts.
You will acquire skills to coordinate audience education activities aimed at promoting knowledge of musical and theatrical languages.
You will acquire managerial skills and know-how, which are becoming increasingly important in today’s performing arts sector.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Curriculum Music Studies: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Theatre Studies: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
As regards foreign experiences, the programme offers the opportunity to take part in training pathways in leading European universities and to carry out internships in international organisations, so as to acquire expertise regarding the European performing arts system and gain an effective insight into possible career choices.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data