Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5947

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Nautical Engineering
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5947
Place of teaching
Campus Forlì
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-34 - Naval engineering
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
Acquire theoretical and practical skills in the area of nautical technologies, integrating both scientific and technological content.
Qualify for a technical role in the design and development of vessels, or for a career in research.
Gain practical experience through internships and preparation of your thesis on the premises of leading yacht-builders.
Study at the Centre of Aeronautical and Space Technologies in Forlì, a centre of excellence in science and technology applied to the aerospace sector.
Learn critical, concrete yet visionary thinking. Thinking 'out of the box' will give you the opportunity to explore new systems.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
Numerous exchange programmes offer opportunities to study, undergo an internship or prepare your dissertation at universities, research institutes or companies abroad. These experiences are of fundamental importance in enriching students' educational experience, promoting cultural and academic exchange, and providing a concrete advantage in the labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data