Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5964

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Neuroscience and Neuropsychological Rehabilitation
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5964
| Qualifying programmes
Place of teaching
Campus Cesena
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-51 - Psychology
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
Insight into the most relevant topics for research in cognitive neuroscience.
Integration of basic theoretical and methodological knowledge with clinical case studies.
Practical laboratory work using key research techniques in neuropsychology and neuroscience.
Participation in seminars with internationally renowned researchers.
Opportunities for professional experience in the process of thesis preparation.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca e Scuola di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
In terms of experience abroad, the programme offers the opportunity to serve an internship with an international organisation or participate in an exchange programme. These experiences offer opportunities for direct contact with international organisations, enriching the student’s understanding of global dynamics and providing a real advantage in the international labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data