Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/8626

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Physics of the Earth System
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 8626
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-17 - Physics
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will further your studies of physics by combining them with outdoor life and the exploration of nature.
You will combine sound theoretical foundations with useful applications to protect human lives and the environment.
You will develop skills that will open up a broad spectrum of job opportunities in academia and industry.
The programme combines the theoretical study of physics with concrete applications facilitating hands-on experience.
The Earth is our planet and we should study it from a physical perspective, and not only geologically and geochemically.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
The possibilities of gaining experience abroad are countless. In preparation for your thesis, it will be possible to gain experience in the analysis, interpretation and collection of data from ship or land in order to study recent phenomena such as earthquakes, tidal waves or volcanic eruptions, or weather-climate variations and their influence on the biological sphere.
When you can attend the degree programme
3
Dec
2024
Open Day
Dipartimento di Fisica e Astronomia - Presentazione dei corsi di Laurea Triennale e del corso di Laurea Magistrale in Fisica del sistema Terra
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data