Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5948

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Plant and Agricultural Biotechnology
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5948
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
                            
                               -  Imola
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-7 - Agrarian Biotechnologies
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
Gain in-depth knowledge of the biology and physiology, genomics and bioinformatics of agricultural crops.
Develop expertise in economic processes for the exploitation of biotechnological innovation and the mechanisms regulating protection of intellectual property rights.
Learn to develop and implement biotechnological interventions for the selection, genetic improvement and protection of crops.
Participate in the management of basic and applied research projects involving technology transfer to industry.
Acquire transversal skills that will enable you to contribute to the debate on the comparison between different agricultural production systems.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled A.Y. 2024/25, 2023/24
Experiences abroad
In terms of experience abroad, the programme offers the opportunity to serve an internship with an international organisation or participate in an exchange programme. These experiences offer opportunities for direct contact with international organisations, enriching the student’s understanding of global dynamics and providing a real advantage in the international labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data