Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/9229

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Planning and managing of educational intervention in social distress
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 9229
Place of teaching
Campus Rimini
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-50 - Development and management of education services
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
The programme supports international mobility by offering you the opportunity to spend a semester or a year in an EU or non-EU country, to spend a period with NGOs and other entities active in development cooperation, or to undertake an internship or thesis experience abroad aimed at studying a specific topic or developing career prospects.
You will 'learn by doing' through group work, project work, analysis of real cases and classroom simulations.
You will develop multidisciplinary professional knowledge and soft skills that are particularly valued in the world of work.
You will be able to undertake an internship-thesis to experience field research meeting the needs of a real working context.
You will specialise in managing a particular type of service and/or user group based on your interests.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024/25 e 2023-24
Experiences abroad
The programme supports international mobility by offering you the opportunity to spend a semester or a year in an EU or non-EU country, to spend a period with NGOs and other entities active in development cooperation, or to undertake an internship or thesis experience abroad aimed at studying a specific topic or developing career prospects.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data