Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5890

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Religions Histories Cultures
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5890
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-64 - Religion
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
International Programmes
Joint degree
UNIVERSITA' DEGLI STUDI DI MODENA E REGGIO EMILIA
,
FACOLTA' TEOLOGICA DELL’EMILIA-ROMAGNA
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
The programme offers specialised instruction in the study of religions from an interdisciplinary perspective.
It prepares you for change management in contemporary societies characterised by cultural and religious pluralism.
It provides you with appropriate analytical tools to develop strategies for mediating and managing socio-cultural differences.
It offers you the opportunity to prepare your thesis abroad and accompany it with an internship.
It allows you to obtain inter-university training (with Unimore) and a joint degree that is also valid in the Holy See system.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
In terms of experience abroad, the programme offers the opportunity to serve an internship with an international organisation or participate in an exchange programme. These experiences offer opportunities for direct contact with international organisations, enriching the student’s understanding of global dynamics and providing a real advantage in the international labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data