Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5728

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Safety And Quality In Animal Production
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5728
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
                            
                               -  Ozzano dell'Emilia
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-86 - Livestock management
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will acquire increasingly important multidisciplinary skills and knowledge for the world of work and research.
The qualification will open up opportunities in the animal production and food processing sectors.
Expertise in the certification and quality control of animal products.
The programme paves the way to work with companies in the sector, genetic improvement centres, research organisations and national and international public bodies.
The programme paves the way for registration in the Order of Agronomists and Foresters.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024/2025
Experiences abroad
As part of its foreign experiences, the programme offers the opportunity to carry out internships abroad at international universities and research centres and to participate in exchange programmes with European universities. These experiences allow direct contact with international concerns, enriching your competences and soft skills and providing a real advantage in the international labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data