Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/9257

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Sciences and Management of Nature
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 9257
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
English, Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-60 - Natural sciences
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
International Programmes
With one or more international curricula
Proposed paths (Curricula)
GLOBAL CHANGE ECOLOGY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
SCIENZE E GESTIONE DELLA NATURA
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
Enrolment with any educational background.
Interdisciplinary approach addressing environmental challenges.
High degree of freedom in the choice and execution of theses and internships.
Practical approach for a complete learning experience.
High-level training to meet the environmental challenges of the future.
Professional profiles
PROFESSIONAL PROFILE:
Natural Environment Management and Conservation Expert
ROLE IN A WORK CONTEXT:
A Natural Environment Management and Conservation Expert is a professional figure that registers, analyses and draws plans to conserve and protect natural heritage, operating in a context characterised by anthropic impact on natural systems and by ecological and social factors largely influenced by the ongoing global changes.
The main activities within the working environment are connected with:
- basic and applied natural research;
- environmental, social, technical and technological research;
- analysis of the effects of global changes and development of environment sustainability plans;
- mitigation of global change effects.
These activities may be carried out:
- conducting a census of the natural heritage;
- developing monitoring plans;
- evaluating impact, recovering and managing the natural environment;
- applying environmental planning to a natural context;
- managing wildlife and conserving biodiversity;
- applying those aspects of environment legislation that require naturalistic skills, with particular reference to the studies on environmental impact (flora and fauna sector) and the assessment of their effects;
- compiling biological and abiological valuation maps, with the use of GISs and connected databases;
- organizing and managing scientific museums, aquariums, botanical gardens and natural parks;
- carrying out environment and natural educational activities, such as the creation of teaching material, including multimedia material for schools, universities, natural museums, parks, aquariums, and botanical gardens;
- planning and managing natural itineraries;
- raising awareness on environmental issues and promoting knowledge about nature.
COMPETENCIES ASSOCIATED WITH THE ROLE:
Natural Environment Management and Conservation Experts have competencies connected with:
- the systematic analysis of the natural environment and its interactions, considered also from a historic and evolutionary point of view;
- the use of the scientific method of research and the knowledge required to apply it;
- the knowledge of the modern territory surveying systems and the statistical and computer programming techniques to analyse and store data;
- the ability to confront issues related to the management and conservation of the environment's qualities;
- the ability to communicate and manage natural and environmental information;
- the management of vegetation and wildlife and biodiversity conservation;
- the ability to operate autonomously, taking responsibility for projects and structures.
To carry out the above-mentioned functions and duties, Natural Environment Management and Conservation Experts will collaborate with self-employed professionals and public administration employees.
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES:
Main career opportunities include:
- entities, cooperatives and other organisations that operate in the natural and environmental education sector;
- agencies for the protection of the environment;
- companies operating in the environment protection and requalification sector;
- public entities;
- agencies consulting on political and economic issues;
- local entities and consortia that manage parks and protected areas;
- scientific museums and botanical gardens;
- educational institutions;
- agencies that assess and manage European projects;
- international organisations (e.g. ONU, EU, World Bank, FAO, non-governmental organisations).
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Curriculum Scienze e gestione della natura: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Global change ecology and sustainable development goals: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
The programme promotes international experiences, with internships and exchange programmes in public/private organisations, environmental associations and foreign universities. These opportunities, enriching your global understanding, enhances your education and career prospects, offering direct contact with international concerns and opportunities in the global labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
4
Dec
2024
Open Day
BIOLOGICAL, GEOLOGICAL, ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES AREA | Presentation of the International Master’s degree programmes
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Sito di curriculum:
CURRICULUM GLOBAL CHANGE ECOLOGY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data