Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/8537

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Science for the Conservation-Restoration of Cultural Heritage
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 8537
Place of teaching
Campus Ravenna
Language
English
Degree Programme Class
LM-11 - Conservation and restoration of the cultural heritage
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
International Programmes
Delivered entirely in English
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will learn to use the most modern analytical techniques currently used for the study of cultural heritage.
You will acquire increasingly important multidisciplinary skills and knowledge in the world of work.
You will learn how to solve concrete problems in terms of the conservation and restoration of cultural heritage (problem solving approach).
You will study as part of an international team with diverse cultural backgrounds.
You will have the opportunity to take part in thesis internships at research institutes, conservation centres and museums both in Italy and abroad.
Professional profiles
Function in a professional context:
For career purposes, art. 29 of D. Lgs. no. 42 of  24.01.2004 (Cultural Heritage and Landscape Act)  expressly refers to the fact that, in addition to the professional profile of “conservator-restorer of cultural heritage”, for which a single cycle degree programme has recently been established, other professional figures perform activities that are complementary to the conservation and restoration of cultural heritage. These complementary activities include those performed by qualified  Conservation Scientist, a professional figure recently established by MIBAC and for which a 2nd cycle degree in Class 11 is required (MIBAC circular no. 81 of 16.03.2009, protocol no. 9384).
This professional profile:
- Designs diagnostic campaigns , identifies  methods, materials, measures and techniques used to recover, conserve and restore cultural heritage;
- Designs conservation and restoration projects on cultural heritage in order to enhance their legibility, use and knowledge;
- Designs diagnostics protocols for the conservation of cultural heritage;
- Manages cultural heritage diagnostics and/or conservation projects;
- Designs and implements information systems for processing cultural heritage data;
- Consults in a freelance capacity or as an employee in firms or organisations for the conservation, management and protection of cultural heritage, local authorities and specific institutions and offices, museums, archives, libraries and public and private research institutes working in conservation;
- In a wider context of the design and implementation of restoration projects, identifies, implements and assesses diagnostic methods to understand the properties, material composition and/or deterioration of cultural heritage, ancient production techniques and the development of new restoration materials and methods.
Competencies associated to the function:
Graduates:
Know how to use and apply even complex chemical, physical and mineralogical diagnostic analytical techniques and tools in the field of cultural heritage conservation;
Are able to operate using specialist knowledge in public and private institutes in charge of protecting the cultural heritage in Italian and international research in conservation and restoration institutes;
Are able to design, monitor and assess, using even complex analytical equipment, restoration works, understanding their structural characteristics and the features and properties of the materials they are made of;
Are able to perform specialist diagnostic analyses on materials, even in contexts which are not strictly linked to cultural heritage;
Use computer systems to manage and process analytical data and documentation on the state of conservation and the works performed.
Teaching activities and specialist workshops are case-study oriented, while the problem-solving oriented activities carried out for the production and presentation of the final dissertation, which may also be carried out in public or private research and conservation institutes, offer students direct contact with other professional figures, helping them to develop and support opinions to solve concrete restoration and conservation problems.
The above skills are acquired through the critical study of texts proposed for self-study, stimulated by classroom activities, research of case studies and applications presented by the teaching staff, practical laboratory work, bibliographic research and field work, individual and group work in the following core course units: chemistry, physics, biology, mineralogy, computing and historical-artistic studies, as well as during the preparation of the final examination.
These skills are assessed through written and oral exams, assignments and workshop activities and the execution of specific tasks demonstrating the students' command of tools, methods and critical autonomy.
Career opportunities:
- Public and private research bodies and universities
- Offices of the Ministry of Heritage and Cultural Activity (MIBAC) involved in the protection of Cultural Heritage (superintendences, museums, libraries, archives, etc.)
- Restoration workshops
- Professional organisations and firms working in the field of diagnostics, conservation and restoration of cultural heritage.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
The programme offers the opportunity to participate in exchange programmes and to carry out thesis internships abroad at research institutes, museums and conservation and restoration centres, with a number of scholarships to be awarded based on merit. Such experiences are enriching, both for your training and for your professional future.
The international and multidisciplinary environment of S.Co.Re. learnt me to keep an open mind and look for solutions across fields and countries. This programme is a good stepping-stone to become part of a small community of restoration-conservation scientists because it gives opportunity to be trained by experts passionated by their subject.
Anna Štulcová, Czech Republic student
When you can attend the degree programme
3
Dec
2024
Open Day
CHEMISTRY AND INDUSTRIAL CHEMISTRY AREA | Presentation of the International Master’s degree programmes
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data