Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/9069

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Sciences and Techniques of Sports Activities
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 9069
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-68 - Sport science
Type of access
Restricted access - entrance exam (80 places available)
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will acquire increasingly important multidisciplinary skills and knowledge for the world of work.
You will benefit from lectures and field applications under the supervision of highly qualified experts.
You will learn to use advanced tools for performance analysis and evaluation of athletes' physical characteristics.
You will participate in seminars and meetings with industry experts and top athletes
You will learn to master the scientific foundations of physical-motor training.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
The programme offers the possibility of participating in exchange programmes at universities in various European countries. These experiences, often enabling the possibility of carrying out the internships envisaged in the study plan, allow students to come face to face with the special method adopted in the technical-sports sphere outside of Italy, broadening their training from an international perspective
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data