Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5943

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Service Management
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5943
Place of teaching
Campus Rimini
Language
English
Degree Programme Class
LM-77 - Management
Type of access
Restricted access - entrance exam (36 places available)
International Programmes
Delivered entirely in English
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
Small class with students coming from different Countries, in an international environment and close relationship with the faculty
A network of highly qualified managers and international academics
Partnership and collaboration with companies for the project works
Scholarships and opportunities for studying abroad
Students tutoring and guidance over the two years
Professional profiles
Service Business Analyst
Function in a professional context:
Service Business Analysts specialise inidentifying, organising and supporting the analysis of qualitative andquantitative data of service businesses. They are responsible for analysingproblems, supporting the management in representing value creation processeslinked to services, and identifying and implementing international developmentopportunities. They are able to identify, deploy and organise the resourcesthat work with the service company at different levels in order to monitorvertical – from/to demand – and horizontal – across the various corporatefunctions – data analysis processes, in both business-to-business andbusiness-to-consumer contexts.
Service Business Analysts are responsiblefor analysing problems, supporting the management in representing valuecreation processes linked to services, and identifying and implementinginternational development opportunities. As quantitative data analysis specialistsin the service context, they actively monitor vertical – from/to demand – andhorizontal – across the various corporate functions – data flows. The servicecontext requires data collection and measurement methods to focus specificallyon consumer behaviour, for business-to-customer firms, and on the management ofbusiness-to-business relations.
Competencies associated to the function:
Service Business Analysts possessmultidisciplinary knowledge and competencies and receive theoretical andpractical training in the strategic analysis of value creation mechanisms inthe service industry, specialising in particular in the management, monitoringand support of the analysis of data from service processes. From aninternational business perspective, these skills allow graduates to master anumber of tools – from those of the economic and statistical area, with specialfocus on the analysis of economic behaviour and data in the service context, tothose of the service management area, at various levels in the marketing andstrategic field. The multidisciplinary knowledge acquired allow graduates tomaster the service business across a number of contexts. Specialistcompetencies in service marketing, service innovation, service management anddigital services are also provided.
Service Business Analysts have theknowledge and competencies to draft business pitches focussing on data andinformation that are useful for decision making.
Service Business Analysts possess knowledgeand competencies in the areas of human resource management and organisationtheory. They specialise in the management of front-line staff in the servicecontext and supervise all organisational process management phases, withreference in particular to motivational processes for front-line staff in theorganisation, who liaise directly with the customer, and service innovation andinternationalisation processes. They are able to promote and embody theprinciples of leadership and to adopt an interdisciplinary and interfunctionalapproach across all levels of the organisation, with a view to facilitating andsupporting the continuous transformation process required of servicebusinesses.
Employment opportunities:
- Professional service and industrial firmsthat create or develop value in the service dimension.
- Non-profit firms, cultural and artisticorganisations or segments of the public administration.
- Medium and large-sized consulting firmsworking in various business areas.
- International organisations andinnovative sectors of the public administration.
Corporate Service Manager
Function in a professional context:
Corporate Service Managers promote andembody the principles of leadership and adopt an interdisciplinary andinterfunctional approach, with a view to facilitating and supporting thecontinuous transformation process required of service businesses. Asorganisational innovation process specialists in the service context, theysupervise all organisational process management phases, with reference inparticular to motivational processes for front-line staff in the organisation,who liaise directly with the customer, and service innovation andinternationalisation processes.
Corporate Service Managers specialise inorganisational innovation processes in the service context, promote and embodythe principles of leadership and adopt an interdisciplinary and interfunctionalapproach, with a view to facilitating and supporting the continuoustransformation process required of service businesses. Corporate ServiceManagers supervise all organisational process management phases, with referencein particular to motivational processes for front-line staff in theorganisation, who liaise directly with the customer, and service innovation andinternationalisation processes.
Competencies associated to the function:
Corporate Service Managers have knowledgeof the international accounting standards and measurement methodologies used toquantify the effects of business decisions, as well as of international market,corporate and new technology regulations. They also possess knowledge andcompetencies in financial reporting, financial performance measurement, socialand environmental impact measurement, and strategic cost management. They areable to understand how companies can handle threats and opportunities arisingfrom the society's growing demand for greater social and environmentalengagement. They are aware of and can apply various sustainable reportingmodels by choosing which sustainability key performance indicators to monitorand disclose. Furthermore, graduates in Service Management have thecompetencies to assess an investment project's ability to create or destroyvalue, by simultaneously analysing the interaction between a company'sinvestment choices and funding choices, with reference in particular to servicebusinesses, in terms of their specific optimal financial structure, agencyproblems and asset/liability matching.
Employment opportunities:
- Professional service and industrial firmsthat create or develop value in the service dimension.
- Non-profit firms, cultural and artisticorganisations or segments of the public administration.
- Consulting firms of all sizes, withinfunctions devoted to the identification, management and support of changeprocesses.
- International organisations andinnovative segments of the public administration.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
For students enrolled in the a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
As part of the experiences abroad, the course offers the possibility of internships in international organisations and participation in exchange programmes. These experiences offer direct contact with international realities, enriching the understanding of global dynamics and providing a concrete advantage in the international labour market.
My SEM experience in University of Bologna's Rimini campus was incredible. Studying was interesting and challenging with the international students and lecturers. I can genuinely recommend the program for anybody who wants to build an international career. This program gives the right set of tools and experiences.
Kasper Kauppila,SEM Graduate Student, Finland
When you can attend the degree programme
3
Dec
2024
Open Day
MANAGEMENT AND BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION AREA | Presentation of the International Master’s degree programmes
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data