Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/9174

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Specialized translation
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 9174
Place of teaching
Campus Forlì
Language
English
Degree Programme Class
LM-94 - Interpreting and specialized translating
Type of access
Restricted access - entrance exam (72 places available)
International Programmes
Delivered entirely in English, Double/Multiple degree
UNIVERSIDAD DE GRANADA
,
MONASH UNIVERSITY
Proposed paths (Curricula)
SPECIALIZED TRANSLATION
TRANSLATION AND TECHNOLOGY
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You can choose between two curricula, one in Specialized Translation, and one in Translation and Technology.
The course prepares you to professionally translate texts in several domains, e.g. for the publishing industry, subtitles and videogames.
It's an innovative approach, focusing on emerging language-related professions, computer programming and data analysis.
You will attend courses which are entirely taught in a foreign language, which can be English, Chinese, French, German, Russian and Spanish.
You will learn about the latest demands of the ever-changing translation market, by exploring the various sectors that make it up.
Professional profiles
Specialisedtranslator and reviser working in sectoral fields, business, publishing andmultimedia and audiovisual communication and localization
Function in aprofessional context:
- Translates specialist writtentexts of different types and genres on topics in differentiated sectors of use,using the appropriate advanced technological instruments (CAT tools, machinetranslation engines, terminology databases).
- Translates written texts ofdifferent types and genres for publishing.
- Subtitles, translates andlocalizes multimedia and audiovisual products (e.g. video games, web contents,TV series) using appropriate steps advanced technological instruments (CATtools, machine translation engines, Content Management Systems, software formultilingual audiovisual products).
- Drafts, revises and post-editstexts in different specialist fields.
Competenciesassociated to the function:
In order to carry out the abovefunctions, the following are required: linguistic, cultural, methodological andtechnological knowledge, abilities and skills for sectoral translation,editorial translation, revision and post-editing of specialist texts;localization, adaptation, subtitling and audio-description, as well as projectmanagement skills. Critical skills, reflection and (self-)evaluation are alsorequired, along with the awareness of the ethical implications of theprofession. Finally, self-learning and lifelong learning skills are alsorequired. If the functions are performed mainly in highly specialised technicalor scientific fields (e.g. medical or legal fields), further specialisation maybe necessary.
Careeropportunities:
Self-employed or employedprofessional activity as a translator, editor, reviser, post-editor, projectmanager for language service providers, national and multinational companies,publishing houses, companies working in the audiovisual multimedia and videogaming sector, private bodies, public bodies, national and internationalinstitutions, public and private documentation and research institutes, touristand cultural companies and bodies, companies working in the marketing andadvertising sector.
Experttranslator in linguistic technologies for translation, terminology,multilingual digital communication and project management
Function in aprofessional context:
- Performs, supervises andcoordinates multilingual translation and communication projects with a hightechnological content, including the analysis and machine processing ofmultilingual data, also using artificial intelligence techniques.
- Manages multilingualterminological information supporting technical communication andtranslation.
- Provides consulting, trainingand support for the technological innovation of translation processes,optimising existing text resources (translation memories, corpora, terminologydatabases) and integrating advanced technological instruments into the workflows (CAT tools, machine translation engines, Content Management Systems,software for multilingual audiovisual products and multilingual data analysis).
Competenciesassociated to the function:
In order to carry out the abovefunctions, the following are required: knowledge, abilities and skills in thefield of translation, management and adaptation of technological resources andtools for drafting, translating and revising texts, as well as forterminography and project management. Critical skills, reflection and(self-)evaluation are also required, along with the awareness of the ethicalimplications of the profession. Finally, self-learning and lifelong learningskills are also required. If the functions are performed mainly fortechnological services with a high knowledge content (e.g. development andadaptation of machine translation systems, software localization) furtherspecialisation may be necessary.
Careeropportunities:
Self-employed or employedprofessional activity as a translator, linguistic expert, project manager, forlanguage service providers, producers of goods and services, digital businesses(digital marketing/advertising, content creation, Search EngineOptimization-SEO), bodies, public and private documentation and research institutes,national and international organisations.
Access to further study
With a Master's in Specialized Translation you can then enroll in a Doctoral Programme or an Italian Second Level Master's.
What you will study
Curriculum Specialized Translation: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Translation and Technology: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-2025
Experiences abroad
The MA offers a wealth of opportunities to study abroad. These include one-semester study periods in EU and non-EU universities (through the Erasmus+ and Overseas programmes), but also longer and more structured opportunities, like the METS mobility programme, and especially our double degrees with the University of Granada (Spain), Rosario (Argentina) and Monash (Melbourne, Australia).
When you can attend the degree programme
6
Dec
2024
Open Day
LANGUAGES AND LITERATURES, INTERPRETING AND TRANSLATION AREA | Presentation of the International Master’s degree programmes
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data