Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/8877

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Statistical, Financial and Actuarial Sciences
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 8877
Place of teaching
Campus Rimini
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-83 - Actuarial, financial and economic statistics
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will have a competitive advantage in the financial and insurance job market.
You will acquire skills in risk analysis related to the exercise of financial, insurance and social security activities.
You will be provided with the necessary knowledge to take the State Examination for the profession of Actuary.
You can conduct internships and gain work experience in companies and institutes in the finance and insurance sector.
There will be further opportunities for direct encounters with key industry players.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master universitario di secondo livello.
What you will study
Course structure diagram for students enrolled in the A.Y. 2024/2025
Experiences abroad
To strengthen the international nature of the training, the programme offers several exchanges with prestigious foreign universities as part of the Erasmus+ project. In addition, it is possible to do a thesis or further internships abroad. These opportunities facilitate immediate interaction in international contexts, offering a practical advantage in the labour market.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data