Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/9222

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Statistical Sciences
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 9222
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
English
Degree Programme Class
LM-82 - Statistics
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
International Programmes
Delivered entirely in English, Double/Multiple degree
UNIVERSITA' DELLA SVIZZERA ITALIANA
Proposed paths (Curricula)
DATA SCIENCE
HEALTH AND POPULATION ANALYTICS
OFFICIAL STATISTICS
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will learn the methods necessary for the rigorous study of random real phenomena and the resolution of complex problems characterised by uncertainty.
You will possess the skills required in the labour market for the roles of data scientist, biostatistician, demographer, official statistics expert.
You will gain advanced knowledge and skills in data analysis in one of the largest university departments of statistics in the world.
You will attend the only second-cycle degree programme in statistics currently accredited by the Royal Statistical Society in Italy.
Once you have obtained your degree, you can apply for recognition as a graduate statistician by the Royal Statistical Society.
Professional profiles
Statisticalexpert in the management and analysis of information
function in a work environment:
The statistical-IT preparation provided forthe management, analysis and interpretation of information enables the persontrained to propose objective tools of use in the decision-making processes ofgoverning bodies and firms. In particular, this person:
- has knowledge of the methodological toolsfor the analysis of data, including big data;
- supports the decisions of technical andstrategic management via the management of IT systems and the analysis ofstatistical data;
- produces statistical indicators and makesforecasts;
- designs and carries out complexinvestigations;
- creates and manages complex databases.
skills associated with the function:
Performance of the above functions requiresspecific specialist knowledge, skills and abilities in the areas of IT,statistics and mathematics. Specifically, the person to be trained must be ableto:
- define the methodological basis for theanalysis;
- use software for the statisticalprocessing and analysis of data;
- interpret and communicate the results.
career opportunities:
Public administrations, research bodies andconsultancies, research centres within medium-size and large public and privatefirms, research centres in international organisations.
Biostatistics
function in a work environment:
The statistical-IT preparation provided inthe healthcare-epidemiology field enables the person trained to organisecomplex experimental investigations and extrapolate information from them thatis useful in practice. In particular, this person:
- makes planned observations to assess theeffect of social and health-related campaigns and action, and the quality ofthe services provided to users;
- organises and manages complex databases;
- organises experimental designs that usecomplex sampling techniques;
- produces statistical indicators.
skills associated with the function:
Performance of the above functions requiresspecific specialist knowledge, skills and abilities in the statistical, socialand healthcare-epidemiology fields. Specifically, the person to be trained mustbe able to:
- identify the principal flows for theproduction of information about the topics under investigation;
- define the methodological basis for theanalysis;
- assess the quality of the data collected;
- analyse and interpret the results.
career opportunities:
Local health authorities, Epidemiologicalobservatories, Pharmaceutical firms.
Statistical-socialexpert in population problems
function in a work environment:
The statistical-IT preparation provided inthe socio-demographic field enables the person trained to define interpretativeand forecasting models for the phenomena under investigation. In particular,this person:
- creates and manages databases for thepopulations in order to study and monitor the demographic phenomena from both astatic and a dynamic standpoint;
- builds forecasting models forpopulations;
- produces and estimates demographicindicators in the absence of complete data (populations of developingcountries);
- makes planned observations to assess theeffect of social campaigns and action directed towards users.
skills associated with the function:
Performance of the above functions requiresspecific specialist knowledge, skills and abilities in the statistical, socialand demographic fields. Specifically, the person to be trained must be able to:
- identify the principal flows for theproduction of information about the topics under investigation;
- prepare questionnaires and deviseforecasting scenarios;
- use software for the statisticalprocessing and analysis of data;
- interpret and communicate the results;
career opportunities:
Public administrations, Research offices ofnational and international research bodies.
Expertin Official Statistics
function in a work environment:
Knowledge of the problems associated withthe management and production of official statistics and the statistical-ITpreparation provided enables the graduate to work for the institutions responsiblefor official statistics at national and international level. In particular,this person:
- designs and carries out complexinvestigations;
- has knowledge of the methodological toolsfor the analysis of data, including big data;
- produces statistical indicators and knowshow to make forecasts;
- creates and manages databases forstudying and monitoring social, economic and demographic phenomena from both astatic and a dynamic standpoint.
skills associated with the function:
Performance of the above functions requiresspecific specialist knowledge, skills and abilities in the statistical andsocial fields. Specifically, the person to be trained must be able to:
- define the methodological basis for theinvestigation;
- use software for the statisticalprocessing and analysis of data;
- interpret and communicate the results.
career opportunities:
Institutions responsible for officialstatistics at national and international level
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Curriculum Data science: for students enrolled in the a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Official statistics: for students enrolled in the a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Health and Population Analytics: for students enrolled in the a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
The programme includes study mobility schemes within the framework of the Erasmus + and Overseas exchanges, as well as internships and scholarships for thesis completion abroad. If you follow the Data Science pathway, you can spend a semester at Università della Svizzera Italiana (USI) and obtain a degree in Computational Science from USI.
My experience in the Degree Programme has been very positive! The Master offers a good balance between the theoretical contents and the focus on practical applications and I had the opportunity to tailor my study plan to best suit my interests. This course gave me the right background to start a PhD degree.
Marco Palma, graduate
When you can attend the degree programme
26
Nov
2024
Open Day
STATISTICS AREA | Presentation of the International Master's degree programmes
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data