Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5704

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Teaching and Communication of Natural Sciences
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5704
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-60 - Natural sciences
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
Proposed paths (Curricula)
COMUNICAZIONE DELLE SCIENZE NEI MUSEI
DIDATTICA DELLA COMUNICAZIONE SCIENTIFICA
DIDATTICA DELLE SCIENZE DELLA NATURA
DIDATTICA E SVILUPPO SOSTENIBILE
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will attend a truly interdisciplinary programme enabling you to understand and describe the world we live in.
A diversified curriculum prepares you to disseminate and teach the natural sciences in and out of school.
You will learn about the main media environments for science communication, from science publishing to museums and digital media.
You will learn to play an active role in promoting awareness of sustainable development and scientific citizenship.
You will develop skills enabling you to become a science communication in your field of knowledge.
Professional profiles
This content is not currently available
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Curriculum Didattica delle Scienze della Natura: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Comunicazione delle Scienze nei Musei: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Didattica e Sviluppo Sostenibile: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum Didattica della Comunicazione Scientifica: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
Among the mobility opportunities offered by the Department, the programme offers the possibility of conducting internships and completing your thesis at research or science communication institutes. You will be able to participate in exchange programmes putting you directly in contact with international organisations specialising in communication and education activities in the fields of natural sciences and lifelong learning for citizens.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data