Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/9071

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Visual Arts
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 9071
Place of teaching
Campus Bologna
Language
English, French, Italian
Degree Programme Class
LM-89 - Art history
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
International Programmes
With one or more international curricula, Double/Multiple degree
UNIVERSITE' PARIS  I  PANTHEON - SORBONNE
,
ECOLE PRATIQUE DES HAUTES ETUDES - PARIGI
,
UNIVERSITE' DE PARIS SCIENCES ET LETTRES
Proposed paths (Curricula)
AMAC - ARTS, MUSEOLOGY AND CURATORSHIP / ARTS, MUSÉOLOGIE ET CURATORSHIP
VISUAL ARTS
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will acquire a sound education in art history, both European and non-European, from the medieval ages to the contemporary period.
You will acquire methodological skills specific to the visual arts with an interdisciplinary approach.
You will enrich your education by participating in events, guided tours, research training workshops and museum internships.
You will gain experience abroad and can apply for a double degree with Université Paris 1-Panthéon-Sorbonne.
You will be able to take advantage of guidance opportunities with experts and professionals in the fields of art history and museology.
Professional profiles
Expert in Mediation and enhancementof the historical and artistic heritage
Function in a professional context:
Experts in mediation and enhancement of the historicaland artistic heritage design, organise and implement communication to thepublic of works, collections and museums using complementary tools andtechnologies from traditional art publishing to the web; they draft educationalactivities for museums that can also be used with foreign visitors, design andorganise activities for enhancement and promotion linked to the historical andartistic heritage; they collect, report on and comment news in the national andinternational art world (cultural events, exhibitions, etc.); they coordinatetheir activities with other specific sectors such as teaching and tourism.
Competencies associated to thefunction:
Experts in Mediation and enhancement of the historicaland artistic heritage are able to autonomously implement historical-artisticresearch and effectively and appropriately communicate the values of theartistic heritage in all its forms according to the needs of the recipients;they have a strong command of the specific vocabulary also in one or moreforeign languages and can work positively in an international environment. Theyare familiar with word processing programmes, archive management techniques anddigital and non-digital databases. They possess basic competencies in theethical and social motivations linked to the enhancement and use of the culturalheritage. They are able to coordinate their work with other institutional andprofessional partners, also through their knowledge of cultural heritage andcopyright laws.
Career opportunities:
These graduates can work in professions linked to thespecific historical and artistic sectors in public or private institutions inItaly or abroad, particularly in the sectors of educational, cultural andcommunication services (traditional and web publishing; public and privateradio and television; press offices in museums, foundations, tourismassociations…).
In accordance with the applicable laws in force, 2ndcycle graduates may also continue their university studies and go on to studyfor a third-cycle degree, undertaking research or professional studies (SpecializationSchool, research PhD, second level master's degree).
2nd cycle graduates with sufficient credits inappropriate subject groups, will be able to take entrance exams for trainingprogrammes to teach in secondary schools, in accordance with the applicablelegislation.
Art Expert
Function in a professional context:
In the various functions of art critic, visual artsexpert, art historian, art experts work in the identification, knowledge,research, protection, management, enhancement, training and education in thefield of historical and artistic heritage. This highly intellectual professionis carried out in private and public institutions as well as on a freelancebasis. Art experts apply their knowledge to assess / identify / promote worksof art and artist in the international field.
The specific tasks of this professional figure include:identifying, analysing, documenting, assessing historical and artisticheritage; curating collections and exhibitions, managing galleries; study,research, training and educational activities in the Visual Arts field.
Competencies associated to thefunction:
The disciplinary competencies linked to the course unitsin the course structure diagram and the complementary nature of the proposedteaching methods produce figures able to autonomously develop historical andartistic research and communicate the values of the artistic heritage in allits forms effectively and appropriately to suit the needs of the recipients.They are able to work positively in an international environment, coordinatingtheir activities with those of other institutional and professional partners,also through their knowledge of one or more foreign languages and the culturalheritage laws. Art experts also possess basic competencies in the ethical,legal and social motivations linked to the management of the cultural heritage,also in the business field, and have notions of cultural management.
Career opportunities:
Graduates can work in the specific historical andartistic sector on a freelance basis or for public and private institutions inItaly and abroad, particularly in cultural and communication services and inall areas of the art market.
In accordance with the applicable laws in force, secondcycle graduates may also continue their university studies and go on to studyfor a third-cycle degree, undertaking research or professional studies(Specialization School, PhD programme degree, second level master's degree).
2nd cycle graduates with sufficient credits inappropriate subject groups, will be able to take entrance exams for trainingprogrammes to teach in secondary schools, in accordance with the applicablelegislation.
Museum Curator
Function in a professional context:
Curators of public and private collections, foundations,museums – as director, curator, head of educational and communication services,registrar - programme, organise, supervise and monitor the activities linked tothe management of collections, carry out research, assess and guarantee theconservation of artefacts of historical, cultural or artistic interest andworks of art; they make available the related documentation on digital oranalogue supports; they coordinate cultural enhancement and mediationactivities; they manage/promote cultural programmes; they organise exhibitionsand events, also internationally; they manage/coordinate human resources; theymanage/coordinate the structure organisation. They liaise with the public,national and foreign institutions, related ministries, associations andsponsors. They coordinate their activities with other specific sectors,including protection, restoration and communication.
Competencies associated to thefunction:
Museum curators are able to autonomously conduct in-depthhistorical and artistic research and effectively and appropriately communicatethe value of the artistic heritage in all its forms to suit the needs of therecipients; they have knowledge of the specific vocabulary in one or moreforeign languages; they have basic competencies in the ethical, legal andsocial motivations linked to the protection and enhancement of the culturalheritage. They are familiar with word processing programmes, archive managementtechniques and digital and non-digital databases, and can work positively in aninternational professional environment, coordinating their activities toenhance the historical and artistic heritage with those of other institutionaland professional partners, also thanks to their knowledge of one or moreforeign languages.
Career opportunities:
The 2nd cycle degree programme in Visual Arts allowsgraduates to work in different private and public professional contexts (withaccess according to the regulations in force): at specific institutions such asSuperintendencies and Museums, Cultural Centres, Foundations, Italian andforeign public and private institutions and bodies. Graduates can work inprofessions linked to the specific historical-artistic sectors, particularly inmuseology and curatorship, all forms of cultural and communication services, holdingresponsibility in sectors concerning the knowledge, cataloguing, study,protection and recovery of historical and artistic heritage.
Exercise of the curator profession in public museums issubject to a specific post-graduate specialisation course.
In accordance with the applicable laws in force, secondcycle graduates may also continue their university studies and go on to studyfor a third-cycle degree, undertaking research or professional studies(Specialization School, PhD programme degree, second level master's degree).
2nd cycle graduates with sufficient credits inappropriate subject groups, will be able to take entrance exams for trainingprogrammes to teach in secondary schools, in accordance with the applicablelegislation.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Curriculum Arti Visive: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Curriculum AMaC - Arts, Museology and Curatorship: for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
The programme offers the possibility of a double degree with Université Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne (Master Patrimoine et Musées). Through international mobility programmes (Erasmus+ for study, Erasmus+ for traineeship, Overseas programme), it is also possible to carry out periods of study and internships abroad to prepare for the final examination.
When you can attend the degree programme
28
Nov
2024
Open Day
HUMANITIES AREA: ARTS, FASHION AND LITERARY STUDIES | Presentation of the International Master’s degree programmes
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Sito di curriculum:
CURRICULUM AMAC - ARTS, MUSEOLOGY AND CURATORSHIP / ARTS, MUSÉOLOGIE ET CURATORSHIP
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data