Link: https://www.unibo.it/en/study/second-cycle-degree/programme/2024/5813

You are here:
Home
>
Study
>
Second Cycle Degree
>
Degree programme
Laurea Magistrale (Second cycle degree/Two year Master - 120 ECTS) in
Wellness, Sport and Health
A.Y. 2024/2025
|
Cod. 5813
Place of teaching
Campus Rimini
Language
English
Degree Programme Class
LM-68 - Sport science
Type of access
Open access with assessment of personal competencies
International Programmes
Delivered entirely in English
Why choose this programme
What you will study
Professional profiles
Experiences abroad
Why choose this programme
You will deepen your knowledge in the field of physical and mental well-being.
You will deepen your knowledge in the field of Sports Sciences.
You will acquire skills on the relationship between well-being, health, physical activity, and the environment.
You will have the opportunity to study in an international context.
You will acquire increasingly important multidisciplinary skills and knowledge in the world of work.
Professional profiles
Professional in the design and managementof physical activity and sport for well-being and health
Role in a professional context:
These professionals promote, organise and manage activities and events relatedto sport, play and physical activity either within publicor private services and bodies, or as self-employed professionals. The common aimof these activities is to promote culture and goodpractice to improve the quality of life and well-being among individuals andthe community, and to promote health. To carry out their duties in a contextcharacterised by the presence of multiple parties/entities interested inspecific fields of action within the wellness sector, these professionals willhave to collaborate, depending on the projects and their beneficiaries, with otheroperators in the health, sport, culture and educationsectors. Their role as coordinators of specific projects must be defined by theability to make use of the specificcompetencies of the various operators involved and promote team work. Morespecifically:
- plan and coordinate activities in profit andnon-profit organisations working in the sport and recreation sectors;
- organise and manage events enhancing sport culturewith a view to a sustainable economy, in synergy with other localorganisations;
- design and advise businesses supplying instruments,goods and services for well-being, sport, and physicalactivity, safeguarding hygiene standards;
- in cooperation with schools, promote teachingactivities and initiatives to develop health culture, proper lifestyles,prevention, youth sport and active citizenship.
Competencies associatedwith the role:
In order to carry out the above, the following competenciesare required:
- specific competencies in the sport and exercisesciences with particular reference to the promotion of physical and mentalhealth, and attention to the individual differencesassociated with age, gender, socioculturalcontext, level of physical and mental maturity, and disability;
- competencies in the design of developmentalprograms through sport practice (especiallynon-competitive sports), in providing guidance to individuals and groups in thechoice of the sport and physical activities most suited to their level of motor, mental,relational, emotional and affective development.
In relation to theactivities and tasks these second cycle graduates will be asked to perform, thecompetencies enhanced by the programme focus essentially on three levels:
a) the ability to interpret the needs (criticalissues and shortcomings) associated with different areas of wellness;
b) the ability to design and manage sustainableinterventions for the promotion of quality of life with verifiable objectives;
c) a systemic vision of the areas and issues related towell-being, being able to work in a team, enhancingand coordinating different groups and professional skills.
Career opportunities:
Public and private bodies, sport organizations,non-profit organisations, schools, companies that primarily operate in,or have among their competencies, the field of healthmaintenance and improvement through widespread and inclusive sport practices,or the promotion of sport and recreational activities to foster the developmentof a healthy lifestyle for individuals and the community.
Access to further study
It gives access to third cycle studies (Dottorato di ricerca/Scuole di specializzazione) and master courses of second degree.
What you will study
Course structure diagrams for students enrolled a.y. 2024-25
Experiences abroad
In the context of experiences abroad, the programme provides the opportunity to undertake internships with international organizations and participate in exchange programmes. These experiences offer direct contact with international realities, enriching understanding of global dynamics and providing a tangible advantage in the international job market.
When you can attend the degree programme
At the moment there are no new open day
Are you interested in this programme?
For more details
Degree programme website
Contacts
How to enrol
Receive programme updates
E-mail
Send
I have read the
privacy policy
and I consent to the processing of my personal data