Link: https://www.avondale.edu.au/course/doctor-of-philosophy/

Current Students
Staff
Library
Alumni
News & Events
CURRENT STUDENTS
STAFF
LIBRARY
ALUMNI
NEWS & EVENTS
DONATE
YOUR UNI
STUDY
RESEARCH
YOUR UNI
Who We Are
Our Purpose
History
Learning & Teaching
Rankings & Achievements
Faculty & Schools
Academic Integrity
Campuses
CASTL
Venue & Facility Hire
STUDENT LIFE
Support Services
Accommodation
Spiritual Life
Student Associations
Sport & Fitness
FOLLOW US ONLINE
COURSES
Nursing
Teaching
Business
Ministry
Arts
Counselling
Lifestyle Medicine
Science & Mathematics
Postgraduate Courses
Higher Degrees by Research
Vocational Education Training
Short Courses
NEW STUDENTS
Apply Now
Pathways
Not sure what to study?
Early Entry
Fees & costs
Scholarships
International Students
Units Offered
RESEARCH AT AVONDALE
Research Integrity & Ethics
Strategy & Performance
Research Training & Support
RESEARCH CENTRES
Christian Education
Lifestyle Medicine & Health
Scripture, Spirituality & Society
PUBLICATIONS
Research Repository
Reporting Your Publications
TEACH Journal
PARTNER ENTITIES
EGW Research Centre
Adventist Heritage Centre
Australasian Research Institute
ENQUIRE NOW →
Doctor of Philosophy
Why study with us?
The Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) is an internationally-recognised degree that enables candidates to apply a substantial body of knowledge to research or to investigate and develop new knowledge in one or more fields of investigation, scholarship or professional practice.
Delivered within a Christian education framework, the PhD also enables candidates to develop an understanding of ethical scholarship principles that are conducive to conducting research in Christian organisations.
PhD candidates receive support by meeting regularly with their supervisors (online and on-campus) and attending research training sessions. The candidate and appointed supervisors negotiate the necessary workload commitments required by the candidate to complete the degree requirements within the stated timeframes.
On average, a full-time study load would require 28-40 hours of study per week, whereas a part-time study load would require 14-20 hours of study per week.
In the final semester, the candidate submits a thesis of 80,000-100,000 words (or equivalent exegesis or publications).
Key Information
Study Mode:
On campus, Off campus
Location:
Lake Macquarie
Duration:
Full-time: 3 years, Part-time: Equivalent years
Course Code:
5001
CRICOS Code:
059853A
APPLY NOW
Course Details
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the Doctor of Philosophy, graduates will be able to:
design, plan and execute an original piece of research, based on an expert mastery of appropriate research methodology, research integrity and ethics;
demonstrate a systematic and critical understanding of a substantial and complex body of knowledge at the frontier of a field of work or learning, in one or more fields of study;
demonstrate substantial knowledge of research principles and methods relevant to the discipline or area of learning;
demonstrate expert cognitive, technical and creative skills, based on a mastery of theoretical knowledge using intellectual independence, to reflect critically on, synthesise and evaluate theory and its application to undertake systematic investigation to generate significant and original knowledge;
disseminate research results to peers and the community; and
as a leading scholar at the frontier of a discipline or disciplines, demonstrate intellectual independence, initiative and adaptability to generate a significant, expert and original contribution to knowledge.
Admission Criteria
To qualify for admission, applicants must have completed:
an Australian Master's by research or a Master's by coursework degree, including a major self-directed research component,
or
an Australian professional doctoral degree, including a major self-directed research component,
or
an overseas qualification comparable to, or higher than, any of the above.
Special consideration for entry into the PhD may be granted if applicants can demonstrate the potential to undertake and complete research-based study at a doctoral level.
In addition, applicants must:
complete a brief research proposal (max. 1000 words) outlining the proposed research topic the candidate intends to pursue,
and
provide a sample of a major written assignment or mini-thesis from a previously completed degree, or a sample of other professional writing (e.g. a report).
Acceptance into the PhD degree is dependent on:
qualifications and experience
ability to communicate verbally and in writing
quality and feasibility of research proposal
availability of appropriate supervision
availability of Avondale's infrastructure and financial resources.
Applicants are invited to an informal meeting (online or on-campus) with the Director of Higher Degree Research during the application process.
Prior to enrolment, applicants are required to disclose any conditions or history that may impact their capacity to successfully complete the PhD degree.
International Applicants
This course is available to international students who meet the Australian government requirements for a student visa to reside in Australia for the duration of the course. It is also available online for international students residing outside Australia. For information regarding visas refer to
https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/study
.
English Language Requirements
Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate English language proficiency through one of the following:
achieving a minimum overall Academic IELTS score of 7.0 with no sub-band below 7.0,
or
obtaining a qualification deemed by Avondale to be equivalent to Academic IELTS (and its minimum scores),
or
providing documentary evidence of a prior qualification conducted and assessed in English in a recognised country^ and completed within the last two years.
^Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Republic of Ireland, South Africa, United Kingdom, or the United States of America.
Post Admission Requirements
PhD candidates may need clearances for research conducted in specific contexts during their candidature, such as:
A Criminal Record Check and/or Working with Children Check if the planned research involves children or vulnerable people.
Government health department vaccinations from the area in which the research would be conducted.
Course Structure
A Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) candidate, whether studying full-time or part-time, will enrol in the following units during the degree:
DPHL71000 Doctor of Philosophy Thesis (the candidate remains enrolled in this unit throughout their research until submission of the thesis)
DPHL72000 Doctor of Philosophy Thesis – Under Examination.
Course Completion:
Minimum length of candidature: 2 years full time (part-time equivalent years)
Expected length of candidature: 3 years full time (part-time equivalent years)
Maximum length of candidature: 4 years full time (part-time equivalent years)
To view unit information, note the unit code and search for the unit in
Unit Outlines
.
Career Opportunities
Avondale PhD graduates are recognised as leading experts in their fields. A PhD can lead to a career in commercial, government, educational, church, or industry workplaces in business management, consulting, publishing, commercial or government research management, project management, business analysis, and other leadership roles.
Scholarships →
Want to reduce the cost of your study? We offer a range of scholarships and grants. View all available
Fees →
You may be eligible for a Fee-Help loan. Commonwealth Supported Place offers are available for some courses.
Enquiries
Phone:
+61 2 49802121
Email:
researchservices@avondale.edu.au
Monday-Thursday, 9.00am-5pm
Friday, 9.00am-12.00noon
Apply Now →
Find another course →
ASK A QUESTION
LIVE CHAT
CALL
Ask a question
"
*
" indicates required fields
Student type:
*
Select...
Domestic (Australia or New Zealand)
International
Personal Details
Your Name
*
First Name
Family Name/Surname:
Mobile Phone Number:
*
Email Address:
*
Email Address
Confirm Email Address
I am..
*
Select...
a High School Student
a Parent/Guardian
a Teacher
looking at postgraduate study
other
Current School Year:
*
Select...
Year 12
Year 11
Year 10
Year 9
Other
I am interested in:
*
Select...
Arts (Chaplaincy, Communications, Counselling, English, History, Music, Psychology, Visual Art)
Business
Individual Support
Lifestyle Medicine
Ministry & Theology
Nursing
Outdoor Leadership
Science
Research Degrees
Teaching
Unsure/Other
How did you hear about us?
*
Select...
At School
Bus Advertisement
Career Expos
Church/Church Big Camps
Good Universities Guide
Google
Printed material (course guide, leaflet, brochure)
Radio
Record Magazine
Social Media (Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIN)
UAC website
Word of Mouth (friends, family, teachers)
Other
Your message:
*
CAPTCHA
search
close
chevron-right
chevron-down
facebook-square
bars
instagram
pencil
bookmark
chevron-down
checkmark-circle
linkedin
facebook
pinterest
youtube
rss
twitter
instagram
facebook-blank
rss-blank
linkedin-blank
pinterest
youtube
twitter
instagram
Notifications