Link: https://www.avondale.edu.au/course/graduate-certificate-in-nursing/

Current Students
Staff
Library
Alumni
News & Events
CURRENT STUDENTS
STAFF
LIBRARY
ALUMNI
NEWS & EVENTS
DONATE
YOUR UNI
STUDY
RESEARCH
YOUR UNI
Who We Are
Our Purpose
History
Learning & Teaching
Rankings & Achievements
Faculty & Schools
Academic Integrity
Campuses
CASTL
Venue & Facility Hire
STUDENT LIFE
Support Services
Accommodation
Spiritual Life
Student Associations
Sport & Fitness
FOLLOW US ONLINE
COURSES
Nursing
Teaching
Business
Ministry
Arts
Counselling
Lifestyle Medicine
Science & Mathematics
Postgraduate Courses
Higher Degrees by Research
Vocational Education Training
Short Courses
NEW STUDENTS
Apply Now
Pathways
Not sure what to study?
Early Entry
Fees & costs
Scholarships
International Students
Units Offered
RESEARCH AT AVONDALE
Research Integrity & Ethics
Strategy & Performance
Research Training & Support
RESEARCH CENTRES
Christian Education
Lifestyle Medicine & Health
Scripture, Spirituality & Society
PUBLICATIONS
Research Repository
Reporting Your Publications
TEACH Journal
PARTNER ENTITIES
EGW Research Centre
Adventist Heritage Centre
Australasian Research Institute
ENQUIRE NOW →
Graduate Certificate in Nursing
Why study with us?
The Graduate Certificate in Nursing is designed to extend and deepen a registered nurse’s knowledge, skills and appreciation of advanced practice that takes into consideration professional, legal, and ethical requirements. In this course students can choose to develop nursing specialist qualifications in either Clinical Nursing, Clinical Teaching or Leadership and Management.
Major areas of study include:
Nursing research and evidence-based perspectives of practice  Lifestyle disease
Health promotion
Holistic assessment and caring
Counselling
Clinical teaching
Leadership and management approaches
The ability to function both autonomously and collaboratively as a member of a multi-disciplinary team is an essential element of this course.
Unit Coordinators are available for students to discuss their online learning needs by phone, email or in person on campus.
Key Information
Study Mode:
Off campus, Mixed mode
Location:
Sydney
Duration:
Part-time: 1 year
Course Code:
2090
CRICOS Code:
APPLY NOW
Course Details
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the Graduate Certificate in Nursing, graduates will be able to:
articulate the nexus between theory, contemporary practice and research and its application to nursing;
utilise critical reflection for self-improvement and improvement in the quality of client care;
apply, synthesise and evaluate advanced nursing knowledge within the context of complex health care environments;
demonstrate leadership skills and advanced problem solving approaches within the collaborative multidisciplinary health team, taking into consideration contemporary culturallydiverse health care contexts;
demonstrate the effective use of high level communication including evolving technologies to disseminate knowledge, skills and ideas to specialist and non-specialist audiences across local, regional and global contexts;
produce scholarly work from an inquiry-based approach that  that reflects advanced understanding and the capacity to apply knowledge to practice;
apply advanced knowledge to contemporary nursing practice  utilising autonomous, holistic and creative approaches, taking into consideration professional standards and culturally diverse contexts;
reflect on the delivery of quality service in a professional context to ensure promotion of   safe ethical practice, that displays integrity, justice, dignity, and respect for others.
Admission Criteria
To qualify for admission, an applicant must have completed:
an Australian Bachelor of Nursing, Bachelor of Health Science (in Nursing), or equivalent as approved by the Course Convenor;
or
an overseas nursing qualification comparable to an Australian Bachelor of Nursing or higher.
In exceptional circumstances an applicant may be admitted based on qualifications deemed equivalent as assessed by the Course Convenor in consultation with the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic).
In addition, applicants must have:
Current AHPRA authorisation to practice as a Registered Nurse;
or
Authority to practice as a Registered Nurse in their own country;
and
A minimum of one-year post-registration experience within the last five years.
Applicants who plan to study the Clinical Teaching or the Clinical Nursing specialty must be employed as a Registered Nurse in a clinical setting.
International Students
This course is available online to international students residing outside Australia. The course is not available to international students residing in Australia.
English Language Requirements
Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate English language proficiency through one of the following:
achieving a minimum overall IELTS score of 7.0, with no sub-band below 7.0,
or
one of the other ways outlined in Appendix 2 of the
Admission Policy (HE)
,
or
providing documentary evidence that their initial nursing qualification (or at least two years of tertiary study) was conducted and assessed in English in a recognised country^ and completed within the last two years.
^Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Republic of Ireland, South Africa, United Kingdom, or the United States of America.
Advanced Standing
Applicants who have completed prior study may be eligible for advanced standing (credit recognition). Applicants should discuss their eligibility for advanced standing with the Admissions Team or the Course Convenor.
Course Structure
The Graduate Certificate in Nursing consists of four units and requires 24 credit points for completion. Each specialisation is made up of two core units and two specialty units, which the students must complete. All units are worth six credit points unless otherwise specified.
Students have three specialisation options:
Clinical Teaching
Clinical Nursing
Leadership and Management
Core Units
NUEB50800 Evidence-Based Practice
NUHS50101 Spirituality and Health
Clinical Teaching Specialisation Units:
#NUCT58600 Clinical Teaching
#NUCT50400 Developing Practice in Clinical Teaching
#Student is responsible for undertaking 120 hours of practical experience in this unit.
Clinical Nursing Specialisation Units:
NUHC55400 Holistic Assessment and Caring
NURS56000 Promoting Health
Leadership and Management Specialisation Units:
LAMC51600 Organisational Processes and Change
LAMC51100 Leadership and Organisation
The Course Convenor may substitute core and specialty units with other units in the Graduate Certificate in Nursing unit options.
To find out more about any of the units listed here, copy the unit code and then search for that unit
here
.
To view unit information, note the unit code and search for the unit in
Unit Outlines
.
Practical Experience
When enrolled in the GCertNurs (Clinical Teaching), students must be concurrently working as a Registered Nurse in a clinical area and are required to undertake 120 hours of experience, whilst enrolled in the units NUCT58600 Clinical Teaching and NUCT50400 Developing Practice in Clinical Teaching.
Students must be able to work in a role that includes clinical education (e.g. facilitator to students, new staff, new graduate nurses or trainee/enrolled nurses).
Career Opportunities
With a postgraduate qualification in nursing, graduate nurses can apply professional interests, nursing knowledge and clinical skills to lead and shape the future of health care. Graduates leave equipped to work in a variety of roles in hospital and community clinical practice, leadership and management, research and clinical teaching.
Download course guide
"
*
" indicates required fields
Name:
*
First Name
Last Name
Email Address:
*
Mobile Phone:
*
Student Type:
*
Select...
Domestic student (Australian or New Zealand)
International student
Scholarships →
Want to reduce the cost of your study? We offer a range of scholarships and grants. View all available
Fees →
You may be eligible for a Fee-Help loan. Commonwealth Supported Place offers are available for some courses.
Enquiries
Phone:
+61 2 4980 2377
Email:
study@avondale.edu.au
Monday-Thursday, 9.00am-5pm
Friday, 9.00am-12.00noon
Apply Now →
Find another course →
ASK A QUESTION
LIVE CHAT
CALL
Ask a question
"
*
" indicates required fields
Student type:
*
Select...
Domestic (Australia or New Zealand)
International
Personal Details
Your Name
*
First Name
Family Name/Surname:
Mobile Phone Number:
*
Email Address:
*
Email Address
Confirm Email Address
I am..
*
Select...
a High School Student
a Parent/Guardian
a Teacher
looking at postgraduate study
other
Current School Year:
*
Select...
Year 12
Year 11
Year 10
Year 9
Other
I am interested in:
*
Select...
Arts (Chaplaincy, Communications, Counselling, English, History, Music, Psychology, Visual Art)
Business
Individual Support
Lifestyle Medicine
Ministry & Theology
Nursing
Outdoor Leadership
Science
Research Degrees
Teaching
Unsure/Other
How did you hear about us?
*
Select...
At School
Bus Advertisement
Career Expos
Church/Church Big Camps
Good Universities Guide
Google
Printed material (course guide, leaflet, brochure)
Radio
Record Magazine
Social Media (Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIN)
UAC website
Word of Mouth (friends, family, teachers)
Other
Your message:
*
CAPTCHA
search
close
chevron-right
chevron-down
facebook-square
bars
instagram
apartment
pencil
bookmark
chevron-down
checkmark-circle
linkedin
facebook
pinterest
youtube
rss
twitter
instagram
facebook-blank
rss-blank
linkedin-blank
pinterest
youtube
twitter
instagram
Notifications