Link: https://www.avondale.edu.au/course/master-of-education/

Current Students
Staff
Library
Alumni
News & Events
CURRENT STUDENTS
STAFF
LIBRARY
ALUMNI
NEWS & EVENTS
DONATE
YOUR UNI
STUDY
RESEARCH
YOUR UNI
Who We Are
Our Purpose
History
Learning & Teaching
Rankings & Achievements
Faculty & Schools
Academic Integrity
Campuses
CASTL
Venue & Facility Hire
STUDENT LIFE
Support Services
Accommodation
Spiritual Life
Student Associations
Sport & Fitness
FOLLOW US ONLINE
COURSES
Nursing
Teaching
Business
Ministry
Arts
Counselling
Lifestyle Medicine
Science & Mathematics
Postgraduate Courses
Higher Degrees by Research
Vocational Education Training
Short Courses
NEW STUDENTS
Apply Now
Pathways
Not sure what to study?
Early Entry
Fees & costs
Scholarships
International Students
Units Offered
RESEARCH AT AVONDALE
Research Integrity & Ethics
Strategy & Performance
Research Training & Support
RESEARCH CENTRES
Christian Education
Lifestyle Medicine & Health
Scripture, Spirituality & Society
PUBLICATIONS
Research Repository
Reporting Your Publications
TEACH Journal
PARTNER ENTITIES
EGW Research Centre
Adventist Heritage Centre
Australasian Research Institute
ENQUIRE NOW →
Master of Education
Why study with us?
The Master of Education (MEd) builds a student’s capacity for Christ-centred practice with critically informed knowledge and work integrated learning. The course aims to inspire and empower Christian teachers to serve God with excellence in education, in the context of spirituality, wellbeing, integrity and service.
The MEd program has four specialisation options as follows, or may be undertaken without a specialisation:
Leadership & Administration
Special & Inclusive Education
Curriculum & Teaching
Health & Wellbeing
All units in the MEd are offered online with an annual on campus component (Winter School) held on the Lake Macquarie campus for one week (5 days) during July.  Attendance at Winter school is strongly recommended. Online attendance is available where circumstances make it difficult to attend in person.
MEd units are recognised as accredited Professional Development with all Australian State Accreditation Authorities, contributing 50 hours each of elective professional development to the maintenance period in which they are completed.
Adventist Schools Australia employees may seek sponsorship for tuition and educational expenses. For further information about sponsorship contact Adventist Schools Australia. Phone:
03 9871 7518
https://www.adventist.edu.au/scholarships/
or the Course Convenor.
Key Information
Study Mode:
Mixed mode
Location:
Lake Macquarie
Duration:
Part-time: 4 years
Course Code:
2050
CRICOS Code:
APPLY NOW
Course Details
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the Master of Education, graduates will be able to:
systematically explore educational theory and practice through a review of educational literature and shared praxis;
investigate and critically analyse both the theory and practice of education with respect to a particular topic or issue;
create a holistic personal professional body of knowledge that will be appraised from a Christian world-view;
solve problems through investigation, critical analysis and reflective thought;
explain aspects of educational practice on the basis of knowledge and research findings;
give evidence of an ability to fill organisational roles which require highly developed interpersonal skills;
display appropriate decision making skills within the context of Christian ethics;
identify types of research methodologies and their applicability to specified research questions;
conduct a minor creative research study involving systematic investigation, critical and reflective thought as well as documentation.
Admission Criteria
To qualify for admission, applicants must have achieved:
an Australian four-year Bachelor's degree in Education, Bachelor's degree followed by a Diploma of Education, Bachelor of Teaching or equivalent;
or
an Australian Graduate Certificate in Educational Studies or equivalent;
or
an Australian Master of Teaching or equivalent;
or
an overseas qualification comparable to an Australian Bachelor’s degree or higher.
In exceptional circumstances an applicant may be admitted based on qualifications deemed equivalent as assessed by the Course Convenor in consultation with the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic).
In addition, applicants must submit a resume/CV or written summary demonstrating at least two years relevant work experience (maximum 2 pages).
International Students
This course is available online to international students residing outside Australia. Students must be able to obtain an appropriate visa to visit Australia for the compulsory on-campus intensive study period. The course is not available to international students residing in Australia. For information regarding visas refer to
https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/study
.
English Language Requirements
Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate English language proficiency through one of the following:
achieving an overall IELTS score of 7.5 with no sub-band less than 7.0,
or
one of the other ways outlined in Appendix 2 of the
Admission Policy (HE)
,
or
documentary evidence of a prior qualification (or at least two years of tertiary study) conducted and assessed in English in a recognised country^ and completed within the last two years.
^Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Republic of Ireland, South Africa, United Kingdom, or the United States of America.
Advanced Standing
Applicants who have completed prior study may be eligible for advanced standing (credit recognition). Applicants should discuss their eligibility for advanced standing with the Admissions Team or the Course Convenor.
Course Structure
The Master of Education (MEd) consists of eight units and requires 48 credit points to complete. All units are worth six credit points each unless otherwise stated. This course is not offered full-time.
The eight units required to complete the course are:
A Christian education unit
An introduction to research unit
A research project (worth one, two or three units)
3-5 specialisation or elective units (the number of units depends on the size of the research project selected)
Christian Education units
Select one of:
EDUC50400
Worldviews & Values Issues in Christian Education
EDUC50600
School as a Caring Community
Introduction to Research unit
All students complete:
EDUC5000
Introduction to Educational Research
Research Project unit
Select one of:
EDUR59200
Independent Project
6 credit points
EDUR59300
Extended Independent Project
12 credit points
EDUR59400
Major Educational Research Project
18 credit points
The pre-requisites for all research project options are: EDUC50000 Introduction to Educational Research AND the successful completion of any two other units.
The Major Independent Research Project option offers students research experience which can provide a platform for further progression to PhD level study if desired.
Specialisations
•    Selecting a specialisation is not mandatory.
•    If a specialisation is chosen, all units must be selected from the same specialisation.
•    Units are considered ‘elective’ if they span specialisations.
•    Specialisations are printed on the testamur at graduation.
Specialisation units
Leadership & Administration
EDUC56100
School Effectiveness
EDUC56300
Mentoring & Education for Professional Learning
EDUC56500
Information Technology for Leaders in Education
EDUC56700
School Organisational Climate
LAMC50600
The Theology, Theory & Practice of Leadership
LAMC51100
Leadership & Organisation
LAMC51200
Communication for Leaders
LAMC51400
Human Resource Management
LAMC51600
Organisational Processes & Change: Leadership
LAMC52100
Marketing Management
LAMC52300
Strategic Planning for Leadership
LAMC52400
Managerial and Professional Ethics
LAMC52600
Accounting for Leaders
LAMC52800
Legal & Governance Issues for Leaders
Special & Inclusive Education
EDUC55500
Special Education: Strategies for Inclusion & Management
EDUC55600
Special Education: Issues & Educational Approaches
EDUC55700
Special Education: Gifted & Talented
EDUC55800
Special Education: Specific Learning Disabilities
Curriculum & Teaching
EDUC50400
Worldviews and Value Issues in Christian Education
EDUC50600
The School as a Caring Community
EDUC53000
Issues in Curriculum Development
EDUC53100
Curriculum Development: The Praxis (Assessment & Reporting)
EDUC53600
Concepts in Learning (Brain Based Learning)
EDUC53700
Teaching: Towards a Personal Framework
EDUC56000
Health and Wellbeing Education
EDUC56100
School Effectiveness
EDUC56200
Teacher Effectiveness
EDUC56300
Mentoring and Education for Professional Learning*
EDUC56600
Information Technology & Learning
Students may choose up to two units from the Master of Arts with a maximum of TWO Level 400 units. These may have pre-requisite or other requirements and should be considered in consultation with the Course Convenor.
Health & Wellbeing
EDUC50400
Worldviews and Value Issues in Christian Education
EDUC56000
Health and Wellbeing Education
EDUC50600
The School as a Caring Community
EDUC56200
Teacher Effectiveness
EDUC56700
School Organisational Climate
Students may choose from Counselling and Lifestyle Medicine units at 400 and 500 Level, with a maximum of TWO Level 400 units. These may have pre-requisite or other requirements and should be considered in consultation with the Course Convenor.
•    Some units are not available every year. Contact the Course Convenor for more information about unit availability.
•    All 6 credit point units require a notional time commitment of 150 hours.
•    The maximum time for completion is 8 years.
•    Students may graduate with a Graduate Certificate in Educational Studies after successful completion of 4 units.
To find out more about any of the units listed here, copy the unit code and then search for that unit
here
.
To view unit information, note the unit code and search for the unit in
Unit Outlines
.
Career Opportunities
Postgraduate study substantially increases knowledge, skills, self-confidence, motivation, and self-efficacy that empower teachers to enact change in their classrooms and school contexts.  It also enables teachers to progress their careers while providing evidence of meeting the Professional Teacher Standards at highly accomplished and lead career stages.
Master of Education graduates have gained promotion and employment in roles such as:
Head Teacher ~ Student Wellbeing
Head of Department
Special and Inclusive Education Coordinator
Stage Coordinator
Head of School, Primary
Head of School, Secondary
Assistant Principal
Principal
Download course guide
"
*
" indicates required fields
Name:
*
First Name
Last Name
Email Address:
*
Mobile Phone:
*
Student Type:
*
Select...
Domestic student (Australian or New Zealand)
International student
Available Exit Points
Graduate Certificate in Educational Studies
4 Units
Master of Education
8 Units
"Specialising in well-being for my Master of Education program has been a wonderful experience, equipping me to adapt to the ever-changing classroom. It's not easy going back to study after many years of working, but despite the challenges, the journey has been incredibly worthwhile. Avondale's staff and professors go above and beyond, providing constant support and valuable guidance every step of the way."
- Monika Kapusi, MEd Student
Scholarships →
Want to reduce the cost of your study? We offer a range of scholarships and grants. View all available
Fees →
You may be eligible for a Fee-Help loan. Commonwealth Supported Place offers are available for some courses.
Enquiries
Phone:
+61 2 4980 2377
Email:
study@avondale.edu.au
Monday-Thursday, 9.00am-5pm
Friday, 9.00am-12.00noon
Apply Now →
Find another course →
ASK A QUESTION
LIVE CHAT
CALL
Ask a question
"
*
" indicates required fields
Student type:
*
Select...
Domestic (Australia or New Zealand)
International
Personal Details
Your Name
*
First Name
Family Name/Surname:
Mobile Phone Number:
*
Email Address:
*
Email Address
Confirm Email Address
I am..
*
Select...
a High School Student
a Parent/Guardian
a Teacher
looking at postgraduate study
other
Current School Year:
*
Select...
Year 12
Year 11
Year 10
Year 9
Other
I am interested in:
*
Select...
Arts (Chaplaincy, Communications, Counselling, English, History, Music, Psychology, Visual Art)
Business
Individual Support
Lifestyle Medicine
Ministry & Theology
Nursing
Outdoor Leadership
Science
Research Degrees
Teaching
Unsure/Other
How did you hear about us?
*
Select...
At School
Bus Advertisement
Career Expos
Church/Church Big Camps
Good Universities Guide
Google
Printed material (course guide, leaflet, brochure)
Radio
Record Magazine
Social Media (Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIN)
UAC website
Word of Mouth (friends, family, teachers)
Other
Your message:
*
CAPTCHA
search
close
chevron-right
chevron-down
facebook-square
bars
instagram
pencil
bookmark
chevron-down
checkmark-circle
linkedin
facebook
pinterest
youtube
rss
twitter
instagram
facebook-blank
rss-blank
linkedin-blank
pinterest
youtube
twitter
instagram
Notifications