Link: https://www.avondale.edu.au/course/master-of-nursing/

Current Students
Staff
Library
Alumni
News & Events
CURRENT STUDENTS
STAFF
LIBRARY
ALUMNI
NEWS & EVENTS
DONATE
YOUR UNI
STUDY
RESEARCH
YOUR UNI
Who We Are
Our Purpose
History
Learning & Teaching
Rankings & Achievements
Faculty & Schools
Academic Integrity
Campuses
CASTL
Venue & Facility Hire
STUDENT LIFE
Support Services
Accommodation
Spiritual Life
Student Associations
Sport & Fitness
FOLLOW US ONLINE
COURSES
Nursing
Teaching
Business
Ministry
Arts
Counselling
Lifestyle Medicine
Science & Mathematics
Postgraduate Courses
Higher Degrees by Research
Vocational Education Training
Short Courses
NEW STUDENTS
Apply Now
Pathways
Not sure what to study?
Early Entry
Fees & costs
Scholarships
International Students
Units Offered
RESEARCH AT AVONDALE
Research Integrity & Ethics
Strategy & Performance
Research Training & Support
RESEARCH CENTRES
Christian Education
Lifestyle Medicine & Health
Scripture, Spirituality & Society
PUBLICATIONS
Research Repository
Reporting Your Publications
TEACH Journal
PARTNER ENTITIES
EGW Research Centre
Adventist Heritage Centre
Australasian Research Institute
ENQUIRE NOW →
Master of Nursing
Why study with us?
The Master of Nursing is designed to extend and deepen the registered nurse’s knowledge, skills and appreciation of advanced practice, while considering professional, legal and ethical requirements.
In this course students can choose to develop nursing specialist qualifications in:
Clinical Nursing,
Clinical Teaching or
Leadership and Management.
This is achieved through in-depth study that embraces a selection of topics including:
current health care issues,
nursing research and evidence-based perspectives of practice,
clinical teaching,
leadership and management approaches,
lifestyle disease and health promotion,
counselling,
holistic assessment, and
advanced therapeutic interventions.
The Course Convenor and Unit Coordinators are available for students to discuss their online learning needs by phone, email or in person on campus.
Key Information
Study Mode:
Off campus
Location:
Sydney
Duration:
Part-time: 3 years
Course Code:
2094
CRICOS Code:
APPLY NOW
Course Details
Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the Master of Nursing, graduates will be able to:
articulate the nexus between theory, contemporary practice and research and its application to nursing;
utilise critical reflection for self-improvement and improvement in the quality of client care;
apply, synthesise and evaluate advanced nursing knowledge within the context of complex health care environments;
demonstrate leadership skills and advanced problem solving approaches within the collaborative multidisciplinary health team, taking into consideration contemporary culturally diverse health care contexts;
demonstrate the effective use of high level communication including evolving technologies to disseminate knowledge, skills and ideas to specialist and non-specialist audiences across local, regional and global contexts;
produce scholarly work from an inquiry-based approach that  that reflects advanced understanding and the capacity to apply knowledge to practice;
apply advanced knowledge to contemporary nursing practice  utilising autonomous, holistic and creative approaches, taking into consideration professional standards and culturally diverse contexts;
reflect on the delivery of quality service in a professional context to ensure promotion of   safe ethical practice, that displays integrity, justice, dignity, and respect for others.
Admission Criteria
To qualify for admission, an applicant must have completed:
an Australian Bachelor of Nursing, Bachelor of Health Science (in Nursing), or equivalent as approved by the Course Convenor;
or
an Australian Graduate Certificate or Graduate Diploma in Nursing or equivalent;
or
an overseas nursing qualification comparable to an Australian Bachelor of Nursing or higher.
In exceptional circumstances an applicant may be admitted based on qualifications deemed equivalent as assessed by the Course Convenor in consultation with the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic).
In addition, applicants must have:
Current AHPRA authorisation to practice as a Registered Nurse;
or
Authority to practice as a Registered Nurse in their own country;
and
A minimum of one-year post-registration experience within the last five years.
Applicants who plan to study the Clinical Teaching or the Clinical Nursing specialty must be employed as a Registered Nurse in a clinical setting.
International Students
This course is available online to international students residing outside Australia. The course is not available to international students residing in Australia.
English Language Requirements
Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate English language proficiency through one of the following:
achieving a minimum overall IELTS score of 7.0, with no sub-band below 7.0,
or
one of the other ways outlined in Appendix 2 of the
Admission Policy (HE)
,
or
providing documentary evidence that the initial nursing qualification (or at least two years of tertiary study) was conducted and assessed in English in a recognised country^ and completed within the last two years.
^Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Republic of Ireland, South Africa, United Kingdom, or the United States of America.
Advanced Standing
Applicants who have completed prior study may be eligible for advanced standing (credit recognition). Applicants should discuss their eligibility for advanced standing with the Admissions Team or the Course Convenor.
Course Structure
The Master of Nursing consists of 11 units and requires 72 credit points for completion. All units are worth six credit points unless otherwise specified.
Students have three specialisation options:
Clinical Teaching
Clinical Nursing
Leadership and Management
Core Units
NUEB50800 Evidence-Based Practice
*NURS50100 Research Methods
NUHS50101 Spirituality and Health
NUTC55100 Therapeutic Communication
LAMC51100 Leadership and Organisation
*Research Methods NURS50100 is a co-requisite for Major Project in Nursing NUMP55200
Specialisations
Clinical Teaching
The Clinical Teaching specialisation is made up of the five core units and the six specialisation units listed below.
#NUCT58600 Clinical Teaching
#NUCT50400 Developing Practice in Clinical Teaching
LMLR50101 Lifestyle Medicine: Past, Present, Future
NURS56000 Promoting Health
NUAS55102 Applied Scholarship in Nursing
**NUMP55200 Major Project in Nursing (Year-long 12 Credit Points)
#This unit includes a requirement of 120 hours of clinical employment. The student is expected to work in a context that includes clinical education (e.g. facilitator/mentor to students, new staff, new graduate nurses or trainee/enrolled nurses).
**Minimum of 36 credit points to be achieved before students can enrol in Major Project in Nursing NUMP55200
Clinical Nursing
The Clinical Nursing specialisation is made up of the five core units and the six specialisation units listed below.
##NUHC55400 Holistic Assessment and Caring
LMLR50104 Physiological Underpinnings of Chronic Disease
LMLR50101 Lifestyle Medicine: Past, Present, Future
NURS56000 Promoting Health
NUAS55102 Applied Scholarship in Nursing
**NUMP55200 Major Project in Nursing (Year-long 12 Credit Points)
**Minimum of 36 credit points to be achieved before student can enrol in Major Project in Nursing NUMP55200
## This unit includes a requirement that the student is concurrently working in a clinical context, to align and apply learned knowledge to nursing practice.
Leadership and Management
The Leadership and Management specialisation is made up of the five core units and the six specialisation units listed below.
LAMC51400 Human Resource Management
LAMC51600 Organisational Processes and Change
LAMC52300 Strategic Planning for Leadership
LAMC52600 Accounting for Leaders
NUAS55102 Applied Scholarship in Nursing
**NUMP55200 Major Project in Nursing (Year-long 12 Credit Points)
**Minimum of 36 credit points to be achieved before student can enrol in Major Project in Nursing NUMP55200
The Course Convenor may substitute core and specialty units with other units if required.
Nested Courses - Optional Exit Points for each Specialisation
Graduate Certificate in Nursing after completion of 24 credit points (4 units)
Graduate Diploma in Nursing after completion of 48 credit points (8 units)
Students should contact the Course Convenor for further details of these course requirements
To find out more about any of the units listed here, copy the unit code and then search for that unit
here
.
To view unit information, note the unit code and search for the unit in
Unit Outlines
.
Career Opportunities
With a postgraduate qualification in nursing, graduate nurses can apply their professional interests, nursing knowledge and clinical skills to lead and shape the future of health care to improve patient outcomes. Graduates leave equipped to work in a variety of roles including:
Clinical Nurse Specialist (CNS)
Nursing Unit Manager (NUM)
Clinical Nurse Educator (CNE)
Various clinical, research and administration roles
Download course guide
"
*
" indicates required fields
Name:
*
First Name
Last Name
Email Address:
*
Mobile Phone:
*
Student Type:
*
Select...
Domestic student (Australian or New Zealand)
International student
Scholarships →
Want to reduce the cost of your study? We offer a range of scholarships and grants. View all available
Fees →
You may be eligible for a Fee-Help loan. Commonwealth Supported Place offers are available for some courses.
Enquiries
Phone:
+61 2 4980 2377
Email:
study@avondale.edu.au
Monday-Thursday, 9.00am-5pm
Friday, 9.00am-12.00noon
Apply Now →
Find another course →
ASK A QUESTION
LIVE CHAT
CALL
Ask a question
"
*
" indicates required fields
Student type:
*
Select...
Domestic (Australia or New Zealand)
International
Personal Details
Your Name
*
First Name
Family Name/Surname:
Mobile Phone Number:
*
Email Address:
*
Email Address
Confirm Email Address
I am..
*
Select...
a High School Student
a Parent/Guardian
a Teacher
looking at postgraduate study
other
Current School Year:
*
Select...
Year 12
Year 11
Year 10
Year 9
Other
I am interested in:
*
Select...
Arts (Chaplaincy, Communications, Counselling, English, History, Music, Psychology, Visual Art)
Business
Individual Support
Lifestyle Medicine
Ministry & Theology
Nursing
Outdoor Leadership
Science
Research Degrees
Teaching
Unsure/Other
How did you hear about us?
*
Select...
At School
Bus Advertisement
Career Expos
Church/Church Big Camps
Good Universities Guide
Google
Printed material (course guide, leaflet, brochure)
Radio
Record Magazine
Social Media (Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIN)
UAC website
Word of Mouth (friends, family, teachers)
Other
Your message:
*
CAPTCHA
search
close
chevron-right
chevron-down
facebook-square
bars
instagram
pencil
bookmark
chevron-down
checkmark-circle
linkedin
facebook
pinterest
youtube
rss
twitter
instagram
facebook-blank
rss-blank
linkedin-blank
pinterest
youtube
twitter
instagram
Notifications