Link: http://offertaformativa.unitn.it/it/lm/metodologia-organizzazione-e-valutazione-dei-servizi-sociali/il-corso

Master's degree in
Methodology, organization and evaluation of social services
Menu
Future student
The course
What is studied
Enroll
Student enrolled
Study and attend
Digital tools
Foreign languages
Computer skills
Internship
Go abroad
Seminars and other opportunities
Graduate
Regulations
Contacts and contacts
Facebook
Google Plus
LinkedIn
Twitter
Email
Home
The course
Level
: Second level degree
Class
course:
LM -87 - Social Service and Social Policies
Tongue
in which the course is held:
Italian
Access methods
:
free
, with verification of admission requirements
Site
: Department of Sociology and Social Research, via Verdi 26, 38122 Trento.
The master's degree in methodology, organization and evaluation of social services offers an advanced training course for those who want to work in all areas of social, health and territorial services: families in difficulty, people with disabilities, immigration, non -self -sufficient elderly people, poverty and exclusionsocial, job placement, minors and others.
The goal of Movass is to create a teaching based on strands of research of excellence but also closely linked to the reality of work in services and their evolution.
Training objectives
The training objectives of the master's degree are:
Learn to direct, coordinate, plan, manage and evaluate social, social health, socio -educational and job placement services.
Acquire theoretical, methodological and practical knowledge in the organization of welfare services, in the methodology of social work, in the evaluation of services and policies, for choices in welfare policies, in research techniques applied to services and policies, in theAdministration and management of services, in innovation in welfare.
Develop the ability to connect the knowledge acquired to lessons and the practical reality of services and intervention programs.
Forming an autonomous thought about the interventions to be put in place to face the different social problems.
Stimulate critical reflection and comparison on study subjects.
Professions
The course prepares for the professions of:
Coordinators of social, socio-health, socio-educational and job placement services, both public and private and third sector.
Specialist social workers.The master's degree allows you to take the state exam to enroll in section A of the professional register of the order of social workers.
Sociologists.
Graduates and graduates can work in
public bodies
With different profiles:
Social worker or Specialist social worker
Coordinator of social services
Social Services Manager
In
private entities and the third sector
Graduates and graduates can work as:
Community Manager
Coordinator of human resources
Responsible for Area Design and Social Development Area
Communication manager (social)
Coordinator of a social and health structure
Project Manager
Quality and training manager.
Courses and studies after the master's degree
With the title of the master's degree in methodology, organization and evaluation of social services, it is possible to enroll in second level master, research doctorates and other training courses.
At the University of Trento, graduates and graduates in methodology, organization and evaluation of social services can enroll in:
The
University Master in Social Perenness
a doctoral course of the
Doctoral School of Social Science
.
Updated the
June 28, 2022
Future student
The course
What is studied
Enroll
Student enrolled
Study and attend
Digital tools
Foreign languages
Computer skills
Internship
Go abroad
Seminars and other opportunities
Graduate
Regulations
Contacts and contacts