Link: https://www.unitn.it/en/node/61433/il-corso

Home
|
Education
|
Undergraduate courses in Workplace accident prevention
Undergraduate courses in Workplace accident prevention
The Undergraduate Degree Program in Workplace accident prevention Techniques (Class L/SNT4) is an inter-university courses Offered Jointly by the University of Trento and the University of Verona, in Collaboration with the Provincial Health Authority of the Autonomous Province of Trento.
The Course Has A Limited Number of Places.
Lessons Will Take Place at the University Polo of the Health Professions (Health Professiones University Campus) in via Brriamasco, 2, Trento and to a Lesser Degree in Rovereto.
Who is a Workplace Accident Prevention Technician?
He/She is a Healthcare Professional Whose Work Profile Is Defined by D.M.n.58/1997.He/She Promotes and Safaguards Public Health and Carries Out All Activities of Prevention;Checks and Controls on hygiene and workplace safety;Food and Drink Hygiene;Public Veterinary Health and Hygiene;and Environmental Hygiene and Protection.
What Does a Workplace Accident Prevention Technician Do?
The graduate in Workplace Accident Prevention Techniques May Be Asked, For Example, To:
Autonomously and Responsibly Manage the Prevention, Checks and Controls on the Quality of Living and Work Spaces;
Define The Intervention Priorities based on Health and Safety Needs, Organizational Needs As Well As the Best Usage of Available Resources;
Project, Realize and Supply-In Collaboration with Other Professionals-Information and Educational Activities for Both Individuals and Groups About Prevention and Risk Factor Control;
Manage Prevention and Control Checks to Assure The Safety and Salubus of Food and Drinks from the Production to consumption phase.
Identify, Analyse and Evaluate The Risk factors for Health and Safety (Systems and Equipment; Physical, Chemical, and Biological Agents; Psychological, Social, Organizational and Ergonomic Factors) and Identify the Most Effective and Appropriate Prevention Measures and Techniques for these Problems;
Manage the Instructional Activity Aimed at the Issuance of Authorizations as Well As Health and Safety Clearance;
Interpret and Manage the Controls for the Enforcement of the Laws and Regulations for Health and Safety Prevention.
Where Does a Workplace Accident Prevention Technician Work?
Graduates in Workplace Accident Prevention Techniques Work for the National Public Health System;in Prevention and Protection Services of Public Structures and Private Companies;in The Environmental Sector of Regional and Provincial Agencies for occupational Health and Safety;In Private Companies As Health and Safety Manager OR Consultant for Food Safety, Workplace and Occupational Safety;Now as a freelance consultant.
Admission
In Order to be admitted to the course, it is necessary to pass an admissions exam (multiple choice test) and obtain a sufficient score for the ranking.
Information and Deadlines for Registering for the Exam are publishing on the University of Verona Webpage (See Links).
Contact info
Course Program Office
Ph.0464.403140
Student.unittori@apss.tn.it
Univr Admissions Office
Ph.045 802 8260
service.orientation@ateneo.univr.it
Univr- Degree Program in Workplace Accident Prevention Techniques