Link: https://www2.lehigh.edu/academics/graduate-studies/4-1-master-of-art-in-politics-and-policy

Academics Menu
X
Academics
Undergraduate Studies
Majors & Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Studies
Faculty
Interdisciplinary Studies
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Research
Creative Inquiry
Continuing Education
Provost & Academic Affairs
International
University Catalog
Summer Programs
Academics
Graduate Studies
Graduate Degree Programs
4+1 Master of Art in Politics and Policy
4+1 Master of Art in Politics and Policy
4+1 Master of Art in Politics and Policy Overview
The Master of Arts in Politics and Policy (M.A.) is a traditional degree option for students who may wish to continue their academic careers in doctoral programs or enroll in law school. The 4+1 format offers students the opportunity to earn a Master of Art in Politics and Policy at an accelerated pace. Students accepted into the 4+1 accelerated program begin taking graduate classes during their junior and senior years and can complete the program one year after earning their undergraduate degree. Current Lehigh students who earn a minimum overall GPA of 3.5, may elect to be enrolled in the 4+1 accelerated program once they achieve junior standing - a minimum of 54 credits. Students in these programs who do not qualify for direct admittance to the MS or MPH based on their GPA must apply for acceptance and two letters of recommendation are required.
The program combines coursework, professional development, and independent research to build skills in qualitative and quantitative analysis; grant writing; and analysis of complex policy environments. Students will become better prepared to address normative political questions; apply statistical methods to policy analysis; and network in political and non-proﬁt sectors. The M.A. in Politics and Policy and M.P.P. can be completed in a single calendar year (fall, spring, and summer)
Master of Public Policy Contact
Dr. Anthony DiMaggio (
ard416@lehigh.edu
) or Dr. Karen Beck Pooley (
kbp312@lehigh.edu
).
Take the Next Step
Calls to Action
Learn More About Program
Course Descriptions
Apply Now