Link: https://www2.lehigh.edu/academics/majors/business-and-economics

Academics Menu
X
Academics
Undergraduate Studies
Majors & Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Studies
Faculty
Interdisciplinary Studies
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Research
Creative Inquiry
Continuing Education
Provost & Academic Affairs
International
University Catalog
Summer Programs
Academics
Majors and Undergraduate Programs
Business and Economics
Business & Economics Degree
Business & Economics Degree Overview
The Bachelor of Science in Business and Economics is the largest undergraduate business degree program at Lehigh, but with a total enrollment of approximately 1200 students, it’s still small enough for close interaction with faculty and fellow students. Students are immersed and engaged in job-critical learning starting in their first year at Lehigh, with a powerful core curriculum that extends across all four years of the program.
As part of the core, students experience the introductory course in every major, enabling informed major choices at the end of their sophomore year. Students also engage in three multi-course sequences that develop skill areas that employers covet—business analytics and decision-making, business communication, and leadership and management—that start in the first year and are reinforced in the junior year as students start their major course work. Students also engage in a comprehensive, experiential capstone course in their senior year.
In addition to this robust core curriculum, the Bachelor of Science in Business and Economics has a strong focus on the power of perspective and skill that comes from a well-rounded education. Accordingly, students are required to engage in courses outside business in Lehigh's College of Arts and Sciences and/or the Rossin College of Engineering and Applied Science.
Read more about the College of Business core curriculum >
Degree Offered
Bachelor of Science in Business and Economics with a major in one of the following:
Accounting
Business Analytics
Business Information Systems
Economics
Finance
Management
Marketing
Supply Chain Management
Students may also do a second (“double”) major if they choose.  Since several majors include different specialization “tracks,” over 100 double major combinations are available.
Business and Economics Career Path
Lehigh graduates with a Business and Economics degree are ready to work in any business or industry, depending on their studies and experiences.
Business and Economics Contact
College of Business Undergraduate Programs Office:
businessundergrad@lehigh.edu
| (610) 758-3400
Take the Next Step
Calls to Action
Learn More About Program
Apply Now