Link: https://www2.lehigh.edu/academics/majors/computer-science-college-of-engineering

Academics Menu
X
Academics
Undergraduate Studies
Majors & Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Studies
Faculty
Interdisciplinary Studies
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Research
Creative Inquiry
Continuing Education
Provost & Academic Affairs
International
University Catalog
Summer Programs
Academics
Majors and Undergraduate Programs
Computer Science (College of Engineering)
Computer Science Degree (College of Engineering)
Computer Science Degree Overview
Lehigh’s undergraduate major and minor in computer science in the P.C. Rossin College of Engineering and Applied Science provides students with rigorous training in mathematics, science and computer science fundamentals while preparing them for the rapidly changing and ever-evolving field of computer science and information technology. Students collaborate with professors on cutting-edge research projects in areas such as gaming intelligence, intelligent web search, medical imaging, robotics, database and information systems, image processing, and network security, through coursework and independent study.
The program promotes the essentials of the discipline—the fundamentals of discrete mathematics, structured programming, algorithms, computer architectures, operating systems and programming languages. Yet its flexible curriculum enables students to work with their advisors to tailor their educational experiences to individual interest areas that promote their individual path to professional development. The curriculum also includes courses that integrate computer science with other fields, such as biology, design and business.
What Can You Do with a Computer Science Degree?
Lehigh’s computer science alumni work in computer programming, software development, system administration, management, and research and development. They solve computational problems and design, implement and improve complex code, turning algorithms into usable products. They work in such fields as gaming, medical imaging, robotics, database and information systems, image processing, and network security.
Computer Science Degree Contact
Robin Armbruster, administrative specialist for undergraduate studies:
rma2@lehigh.edu
|
(610) 758-4025
College of Engineering Central Inbox:
engineering@lehigh.edu
|
(610) 758-5308
Take the Next Step
Calls to Action
Learn More About Program
Course Descriptions
Apply Now