Link: https://www2.lehigh.edu/academics/majors/computer-science-college-of-arts-and-sciences

Academics Menu
X
Academics
Undergraduate Studies
Majors & Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Studies
Faculty
Interdisciplinary Studies
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Research
Creative Inquiry
Continuing Education
Provost & Academic Affairs
International
University Catalog
Summer Programs
Academics
Majors and Undergraduate Programs
Computer Science (College of Arts and Sciences)
Computer Science Degree (College of Arts and Sciences)
Computer Science Degree Overview
Lehigh’s undergraduate major and minor in computer science in the College of Arts and Sciences is identical to the program in the P. C. Rossin College of Engineering and Applied Science in the fundamental requirements in mathematics and computer science, and the programs are appropriate for entry into management or industrial positions. They are also appropriate for continued graduate study, though students considering graduate study are strongly encouraged to consider taking part in a research project during their junior year.
The two B.S. programs differ in their non-computer science content in that the students must fulfill the distribution requirements of the respective colleges. The result of this difference is that the Arts and Sciences program requires 127 credit hours, whereas the P. C. Rossin College of Engineering and Applied Science program requires 128 credit hours. Students with interests in management, finance, data processing, and information handling may find the Arts and Science College program more appropriate.
Computer Science Career Opportunities
Lehigh’s computer science alumni work in computer programming, software development, system administration, management, and research and development. They solve computational problems and design, implement and improve complex code, turning algorithms into usable products. They work in such fields as gaming, medical imaging, robotics, database and information systems, image processing, and network security.
Computer Science Degree Contact
Jeanne Steinberg, academic coordinator:
cs@lehigh.edu
|
(610) 758-4064
Take the Next Step
Calls to Action
Learn More About Program
Course Descriptions
Apply Now