Link: https://www2.lehigh.edu/academics/majors/engineering-mechanics

Academics Menu
X
Academics
Undergraduate Studies
Majors & Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Studies
Faculty
Interdisciplinary Studies
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Research
Creative Inquiry
Continuing Education
Provost & Academic Affairs
International
University Catalog
Summer Programs
Academics
Majors and Undergraduate Programs
Engineering Mechanics
Engineering Mechanics Degree
Engineering Mechanics Degree Overview
Lehigh’s undergraduate major in engineering mechanics offers students a comprehensive education grounded in the fundamentals of the discipline while incorporating invaluable hands-on experience opportunities. Professors renowned for their research offer world-class instruction and access to research internships, co-op experiences and independent study projects. The program prepares students for satisfying and productive careers in a wide variety of fields.
Mechanical engineering students gain knowledge in areas such as solid and fluid mechanics, engineering materials, product design and manufacturing, thermodynamics and control systems. The manufacturing course required of all juniors exemplifies the department’s hands-on approach to education. Using sophisticated engineering tools, teams of Lehigh students collaborate each year with local middle-school students to design, simulate, fabricate and produce a new manufactured product, like a plastic matchbox car or a new way to package toys. They use the department’s CAD software, rapid prototyping facilities, computer numerical control milling and injection-molding machines. The course culminates with an annual expo in which the students compete and are judged on product design and effectiveness.
Career Opportunities
Lehigh’s engineering mechanics alumni go on to design, create and operate various types of machinery. They manage systems for energy conversion, material transport and the control of motions and forces.
Mechanical engineering is one of the broadest engineering fields, with professionals working in industries as diverse as aerospace, transportation, bioengineering, communications, electronics, computers, energy, environment, machinery and manufacturing.
Engineering Mechanics Degree Contact
Robin Armbruster, administrative specialist for undergraduate studies:
rma2@lehigh.edu
|
(610) 758-4025
College of Engineering Central Inbox:
engineering@lehigh.edu
|
(610) 758-5308
Take the Next Step
Calls to Action
Learn More About Program
Course Descriptions
Apply Now