Link: https://www2.lehigh.edu/academics/majors/marketing

Academics Menu
X
Academics
Undergraduate Studies
Majors & Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Studies
Faculty
Interdisciplinary Studies
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Research
Creative Inquiry
Continuing Education
Provost & Academic Affairs
International
University Catalog
Summer Programs
Academics
Majors and Undergraduate Programs
Marketing
Marketing Degree
Marketing Majors and Minor Overview
Lehigh’s undergraduate major in marketing is a rigorous and highly relevant curriculum of instruction. Students learn how to recognize the strong linkage between theory and practice, and the need for teamwork, leadership, and communication skills. Course activities provide the learning environment for students to acquire professional-level competency throughout the curriculum by developing integrated marketing communications campaigns, designing and implementing marketing research projects, conducting customer analyses, participating in product development simulations, and providing the opportunity to further develop their skills through special projects and corporate internships.
The key to success in any business today is marketing. The entire process of entering markets and creating profitable customers for life is the fundamental challenge for today’s marketing manager. More than just advertising and selling, marketing needs to understand the customer’s wants and needs, the desired product and its acceptable price, effective promotions, and how to best deliver the product to the customer. Effective marketing influences not only the target audience, but company-wide departments as well. Only by working with engineering to design the right products, finance to obtain the funding, production to make the product, and accounting to measure profitability goals, can a business survive and grow in today’s highly competitive marketplace. Be it government, not-for-profit organizations, or free enterprise, marketing will play the lead role in how organizations succeed in the new economy.
Read more about the College of Business core curriculum >
Degrees Offered
Bachelor of Science in Business and Economics degree with a major in Marketing
Bachelor of Science in Integrated Business and Engineering degree with a major in Marketing
Minor in Marketing
Careers with a Marketing Degree
Lehigh’s marketing alumni secure positions in areas such as advertising, consulting, distribution, brand marketing, analytics/marketing research, media and media planning, new product development, sales and sales management, social media, public relations, purchasing, and retailing.
Marketing Degree Contact
David Griffith, chair:
dag312@lehigh.edu
Morgan Nelson, coordinator:
mol311@lehigh.edu
|
(610) 758-4743
Take the Next Step
Calls to Action
Learn More About Program
Course Descriptions
Apply Now