Link: https://www2.lehigh.edu/academics/graduate-studies/public-health

Academics Menu
X
Academics
Undergraduate Studies
Majors & Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Studies
Faculty
Interdisciplinary Studies
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Research
Creative Inquiry
Continuing Education
Provost & Academic Affairs
International
University Catalog
Summer Programs
Academics
Graduate Studies
Graduate Degree Programs
Public Health
Master of Public Health (MPH)
Master of Public Health (MPH) Overview
Students are prepared for jobs in government, research, practice and policymaking fields through a Lehigh’s Master of Public Health (MPH) program. Along with a core education on public health, students will learn to assess determinants of health with data science. Students will take courses in public health along with data science, qualitative research methods, leadership, cultural understanding and health, and policymaking. With the coursework students also have the additional ability to learn through experiential opportunities, research projects, and partnerships. The program is also designed to meet the accreditation requirements for the Council on Education for Public Health. Students must take at least 42 credits to complete the degree consisting of foundational courses and related electives. Students will also take part in a capstone project at an internship site to complete a public health project.
Undergraduates receiving a BS in Population Health or a BA in Community and Global Health, earning a 3.5 GPA by junior year can be automatically admitted into the MPH or the MS in Population Health through the 4+1 accelerated programs. As an undergraduate they must also take two graduate level courses to qualify. They should start the masters immediately after the undergraduate degree is completed.
Master of Public Health (MPH) Contact
Won Choi, PhD, Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Education:
cohgrad@lehigh.edu
|
(610) 758-1800
Take the Next Step
Calls to Action
Learn More About Program
Course Descriptions
Apply Now