Link: https://www2.lehigh.edu/academics/graduate-studies/school-psychology-0

Academics Menu
X
Academics
Undergraduate Studies
Majors & Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Studies
Faculty
Interdisciplinary Studies
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Research
Creative Inquiry
Continuing Education
Provost & Academic Affairs
International
University Catalog
Summer Programs
Academics
Graduate Studies
Graduate Degree Programs
School Psychology
Ph.D. in School Psychology
Educational Specialist in School Psychology Overview
Lehigh University’s Educational Specialist (Ed.S.) in School Psychology program is approved by the National Association of School Psychologists as a way to train individuals to become school-based practitioners. Innovative faculty share their own pioneering research and best practices in the field to train Ed.S. candidates in the most effective methods for working with children of all backgrounds and abilities. The Educational Specialist program requires students to take 22 courses (66 credits). Typical Ed.S. candidates complete the program in three years, with two years of course work and one year of a full-time internship. A normal course load would be three courses for 10 credits in the fall, three courses for 10 credits in the spring and one to three courses in the summer for 3-10 credits.
Gaining hands-on experience is an important part of the program so practicums are integrated throughout with course-based curriculum the first year and a formal practicum the second year. Across both years, students accumulate 200 hours of practical experience. The final year is an internship, and Ed.S. candidates must successfully complete a comprehensive exam, which consists of an extensive portfolio review.
The Ed.S. program results in both the degree and certification as a school psychologist in Pennsylvania, as well as eligibility for the NCSP credential awarded by NASP.
School Psychology Contact
Dr. Ethan VanNorman, Associate Professor and Program Director:
erv418@lehigh.edu
|
(610) 758-3544
Lori Gallagher-Anderson, Program Coordinator:
lja320@lehigh.edu
|
(610) 758-3256
Take the Next Step
Calls to Action
Learn More About Program
Course Descriptions
Request Info
Apply Now