Link: https://www2.lehigh.edu/academics/graduate-studies/special-education-with-pa-teacher-certification

Academics Menu
X
Academics
Undergraduate Studies
Majors & Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Studies
Faculty
Interdisciplinary Studies
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Research
Creative Inquiry
Continuing Education
Provost & Academic Affairs
International
University Catalog
Summer Programs
Academics
Graduate Studies
Graduate Degree Programs
Special Education with PA Teacher Certification
Special Education with PA Teacher Certification
Special Education with PA Teacher Certification Overview
This master’s program is designed for those seeking Pennsylvania certification as a Special Education teacher. Special Education teachers work with people who have a broad range of learning, mental, emotional and physical disabilities. They adapt general education lessons and teach such subjects as reading, writing and math to students with mild and moderate disabilities. They also impart basic skills, including literacy and communication techniques, to students with severe disabilities.
Lehigh’s faculty in Special Education are recognized experts in such areas as autism, learning disabilities, academic intervention, emotional behavior disorders and positive behavior support. Master’s candidates learn the best practices for designing instruction and teaching students with a wide variety of disabilities.  Educators in the field are in demand and that trend is expected to continue. The number of positions nationally is predicted to rise by 8 percent from 2016 to 2026, adding 33,300 new jobs, according to U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Once certified to teach in Pennsylvania, that certification has reciprocity in most states.
Certifications Offered:
Special Education PreK-12 PA Teacher Certification
Special Education PreK-12 and General Education PreK-4 PA Teacher Certification
Special Education Pre-K12 and General Education 7-12 PA Teacher Certification
Special Education with PA Teacher Certification Contact
Dr. Sara Kangas, Associate Professor and Program Director:
sak516@lehigh.edu
|
(610) 758-3235
Donna Toothman, Program Coordinator:
djt2@lehigh.edu
|
(610) 758-3230
Take the Next Step
Calls to Action
Learn more about program
Request Info
Apply Now