Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-animal-biology


Study
Courses
Animal biology
Choose a major in Animal Biology
Skin, scales, feathers, fur.
Scientists estimate there are 1-2 million species of animals on Earth—and we’ve only discovered a fraction of them. Animal biology is the study of living terrestrial, avian and aquatic animals. It explores the chemical and physical makeup of animals, including their evolution, behaviour, physiology, ecology and biodiversity. The diversity of animal life is astounding and the lessons we learn from animals can be applied to agriculture, environmental conservation and management, veterinary science, education and public policy. Learn in the field and the lab, with an eye to the global challenges facing animals and the role we play in their future.
Why study Animal Biology?
Open your mind to the tremendous biodiversity on Earth
Apply scientific methodology to your love of animals
Pursue a career in animal-related fields
Experience animals in the classroom, field and lab
Understand how animals operate, from their molecular makeup to their relationship with the environment
What you will study
Animal behaviour
Marine mammals, sharks, fish, birds, reptiles and insects
Ecology
Evolution, genetics and biological diversity
Biostatistics
Add Animal Biology to your degree
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of Design and Technology Innovation
Bachelor of Science
How many topics will you study?
A major in Animal Biology consists of:
22.5 units of Year 1 topics
18 units of Year 2 topics
18 units of Year 3 topics.
Your career
Prepare yourself for a career in wildlife protection and rehabilitation, animal medicine and research, farming, government and education.
Potential occupations include:
wildlife rehabilitator
farm manager
animal scientist
government regulator
conservationist
park ranger.
Potential employers include:
environmental and conservation organisations
zoos and wildlife sanctuaries
wildlife tourism companies
universities
government.
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS