Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-applied-linguistics


Study
Courses
Applied linguistics
Choose a major in Applied Linguistics
Master language, connect cultures and transform futures.
Language and communication are key to everyday life: from how we decipher advertisements, to how we feel about ourselves, or how we speak with friends and family. Studying a major in Applied Linguistics will increase your understanding of how language works in personal, social and professional environments.
You'll learn how to express yourself effectively in written and spoken modes, and discover how the way you communicate helps or hinders your relationships. The major in Applied Linguistics will delve into the intricacies of language acquisition, usage and teaching, equipping you with essential skills to analyse and address linguistic challenges.
You could find yourself teaching languages other than English, negotiating business deals, working in policy development, or diving into research - contributing to fields where language proficiency and intercultural communication are essential.
Why study Applied Linguistics?
Acquire broad knowledge of areas such as sociolinguistics, psycholinguistics, and language education
Explore contemporary issues around the diversity of languages and cultures in Australian society and beyond
Develop the ability to learn and teach foreign language and communication skills
Bridge cross-cultural language and communication gaps and dive into global language trends
Gain real-world insights through internships and research projects
Graduate career-ready with our focus on employability, industry connections and practical skill development
Access cutting-edge facilities and utilise advanced language labs and research tools
Customize your study and choose from part-time or full-time options, including online learning components
Your career
Develop advanced analytical and critical thinking abilities - essential for roles in language research and policy development - and gain expertise in research methods and data analysis, preparing you for a career as a research analyst or language consultant.
You'll also enhance your communication skills and deepen your understanding of cultural studies, preparing you for careers in translation and interpretation. Plus, practical experience in language teaching methodologies will also prepare you for roles as a language educator.
Potential occupations include:
Language educator
Forensic linguistics specialist
Professional writer
Language policy specialist
Communications advisor
Interpreter and translator
Linguistic researcher
Language consultant
Lexicographer
Potential employers include:
Education providers
Government departments
Research institutions
What you will study
This major covers topics including phonetics and phonology, sociolinguistics, discourse analysis, language policy and more.
You’ll study topics including:
Sociolinguistics: The study of how language varies and changes in social groups
Phonetics and Phonology: The sounds of human speech and their systematic organisation
Language and Identity: How language shapes and reflects personal and group identities
Multilingualism: The dynamics and challenges of using multiple languages
Language Teaching Methodologies: Effective strategies and approaches for teaching languages
Discourse Analysis: Examining how language is used in texts and conversations
Language Policy and Planning: How language policies are developed and their impact on societies
Study options
Study this major in the following degrees:
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science / Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Languages
Bachelor of Laws (Honours) - Legal Practice Entry / Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Laws (Honours) / Bachelor of Arts
How many units?
This major is comprised of 36 units, including:
Two Year 1 topics (9 units)
Three Year 2 topics (13.5 units)
Three Year 3 topics (13.5 units)
Applied Linguistics can also be taken as a minor. Your 18 units will include:
Two Year 1 topics (9 units)
One Year 2 topic (4.5 units)
One year 3 topic (4.5 units)
Add a year of Honours
Kickstart your career or future in research with one extra year.
By adding just one year full-time to your undergraduate degree, you can graduate with Honours. Enhance your career prospects, delve deeper into knowledge or launch yourself into the world of research.
Explore your honours year
Meet the experts
Associate Professor in Applied Linguistics, Werner Botha
Associate Professor Werner Botha’s research interests include the use of English in Asian higher education, language variation, multilingualism, and sociolinguistics. He is Co-Editor of The Routledge Handbook of English-medium Instruction in Higher Education (Routledge), as well as the The Handbook of Asian Englishes (Wiley Blackwell).
Learn More
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 17 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS