Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-aquatic-biology


Study
Courses
Aquatic biology
Choose a major in Aquatic Biology
Tap into new opportunities
About 71% of the Earth’s surface is covered with water. Study the plants and animals that live in our oceans, seas, wetlands, rivers, river mouths, lakes and ponds with a major in Animal Biology. You’ll build an understanding of marine and freshwater mammals, birds, reptiles, fish, invertebrates, plants and algae and deal with current issues, from sustainable fishing to coral reef conservation.
Why study Aquatic Biology?
Gain an understanding of aquatic life, environments, and sustainable use and management
Build a career around the environment and its natural resources
Address global challenges like pollution, endangered species, coral reef destruction and over-fishing
What you will study
Marine, freshwater and brackish water biology
Biological diversity, genetics and evolution
Molecular science
Biostatistics
Coasts and oceans
Fisheries biology, science and management
Add Aquatic Biology to your degree
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of Design and Technology Innovation
Bachelor of Science
How many topics will you study?
A major in Aquatic Biology consists of:
22.5 units of Year 1 topics
18 units of Year 2 topics
18 units of Year 3 topics
Your career
Work across environmental public policy, natural resources or conservation.
Potential occupations include:
aquatic biologist or modeller
marine scientist or limnologist
environmental consultant.
Potential employers include:
aquariums, zoos or museums
environmental or conservation organisations
government or government advisory bodies.
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS