Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/postgraduate-audiology


Study
Courses
Audiology
Overview
Globally 20% of population has some hearing difficulty and this number is rising. According to WHO, nearly 2.5 billion people globally will experience some level of hearing loss by 2050. Audiologists are experts in the management of hearing and its disorders across the lifespan and provide the essential services for a successful outcome.
Flinders University Audiology course endeavours to produce clinically competent health professionals with a commitment to evidence-based family centred practice and who are collaborative, and responsive to cultural and linguistic diversity. This course prepares you to become a well-informed health professional and begin clinical practice as an audiologist in urban, rural, and remote settings.
Additionally, the course will help you acquire critical skills in appraising scientific and clinical information which will assist your further professional development. The Master of Audiology is the only audiology course offered in South Australia fully currently accredited course in the country.
Commonwealth Supported Places available for Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander Students.
The Master of Audiology now has two Commonwealth supported places available for commencing Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander students. In addition, a scholarship valued at $15,000 over two years has been established through the generous support of Hearing Australia.
Please
contact the Audiology team
for more information.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Course
Master of Audiology
Duration:
2 years full-time
Delivery mode:
In person and some online teaching
Location:
Bedford Park
Availability:
Full-time
Part-time
Start dates:
March
SATAC code:
2CM039
Annual indicative fees (2025):
$35,496 (Full fee paying)
$9,314 (Commonwealth supported - Indigenous applicants only)
Further information on fees listed
Apply via SATAC
2CM039
Course
Master of Audiology
Duration:
2 years
Delivery mode:
In person
Location:
Bedford Park
Start dates:
March
CRICOS code:
027824D
Annual fees:
2025: $55,500
Further information on fees listed
What you will study

Entry requirements

How to apply

Enquire

What you will study

Entry requirements

How to apply

Enquire

Your career
There is a great demand for qualified and trained professionals in audiology, both within Australia and worldwide, and the Flinders course enjoys particularly high employment outcomes. Opportunities exist in city-based, rural and remote settings across the globe.
Potential employers include:
public and private sector
diagnostic and rehabilitation practices
hospitals
education settings
special schools
early intervention centres
universities
research facilities
hearing aid companies.
Professional accreditation/recognition
The Master of Audiology is fully accredited by Audiology Australia. Graduates of the Master of Audiology will meet the standards set out by Audiology Australia for practice by entry-level audiologists.
What you will study
The Master of Audiology consists of audiology topics, clinical audiology topics, professional studies topics, and research topics.
You will study topics which address the scientific foundations of audiology and how they interface with clinical practice in diagnosing and managing auditory disorders, as well as clinical audiology and professional studies that provide skills necessary to produce a competent beginning practitioner.
Topics that address current issues of specific and general relevance to audiologists as health professionals are also introduced throughout the course.
Students will undertake professional experience placement as part of the course. For more information visit
Audiology placement
.
Practical experience
The program offers innovative learning experiences including problem-based learning tutorials, clinical skills classes and clinical placements in Adelaide or interstate, and in rural and remote areas of South Australia and the Northern Territory.
Practical experience requirements
Master of Audiology students are required to undertake specified health checks, immunisations, and criminal history checks as per University and health department policies.
View study program
Master of Audiology
Entry requirements
Masters
Applicants must normally hold a bachelor degree or equivalent qualification and typically have achieved a minimum of credit average. No specific undergraduate degree is required for admission.
Admission will be based on the highest GPA using a minimum of 18 units of a qualification.
Up to 4 places are reserved in the course for applicants who have completed the Bachelor of Health Sciences or the Bachelor of Medical Science at Flinders University.
Applicants are encouraged to research the career of an audiologist and health professional through making personal enquires and visits to clinical departments.
Download a Statutory Declaration form

Indigenous sub quota entry
An annual subquota is available to Indigenous applicants. Such applicants competitive under the subquota will be offered a place on a Commonwealth Supported basis. Applicants are required to apply in the normal way and in addition, within 10 working days after submitting the SATAC application, submit a document signed under Common Seal from an incorporated Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander organisation in the community from which the applicant originates or is recognised, confirming that the applicant is recognised by that community. Where applicants are unable to provide a document signed under Common Seal they may provide a Statutory Declaration to SATAC confirming the applicant is of Aboriginal or Torres Strait Island descent.
How to apply
1
Select your preferred course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check individual course entries on SATAC for information on important dates.
4
Apply online at SATAC.
Apply directly via SATAC
Select your preferred course and apply directly through the MySATAC application portal.
Master of Audiology
2CM039
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Entry requirements
Masters
Applicants must hold a bachelor degree or equivalent qualification, and typically have achieved a Flinders equivalent grade point average (GPA) of 5.00 or above to be considered.
Applicants who did not achieve a GPA of 5.00 or above in their completed approved bachelor degree or equivalent qualification, can still be considered on the basis of a second bachelor degree, graduate certificate (if done in its entirety), graduate diploma or Masters degree of their choice, provided they have completed a minimum one semester of full-time equivalent study in one of these courses and they achieve a GPA of 5.00 or above in this study.
English language requirements
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
EXPLORE
OTHER CAREERS
IN HEALTH
There are amazing careers in health all over the world for you to discover.
Uncover your passion
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 05 Nov 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS