Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-early-childhood-education-birth-5


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Early Childhood Education (Birth to 5)
Study Bachelor of Early Childhood Education (Birth to 5) at Flinders
Are you passionate about making a difference in the lives of young children?
This degree is designed to give you the skills and knowledge needed to teach and care for children from birth to 5 years of age. Whether you're interested in working at childcare centres, kindergartens, or preschools, this course combines hands-on experience with the latest educational theory.
You'll learn how to plan creative, play-based learning activities that spark curiosity and help children grow. Discover how to create supportive environments where every child—no matter their background—feels valued and included. Plus, you’ll explore Indigenous perspectives and how these ways of knowing can shape better learning for all children.
If you're looking for a career where you can inspire the next generation, this degree could be your next step.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
N/A
Guaranteed selection rank
75.00
TAFElink
Advanced Diploma or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
245161 (Bedford Park) 284951 (City)
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Online: Yes
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: TBC
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
7.0
Writing
7.0
Speaking
7.0
Listening
7.0
Reading
7.0
Pearson
overall
65
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
116862A
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $34,000
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
245161 (Bedford Park)
284951 (City)
Why study Early Childhood Education at Flinders
Gain the skills employers are seeking with our nationally and internationally recognised transformative curriculum, based on contemporary research understandings of how to prepare effective teachers.
Qualify job-ready to work with children aged birth-5 in early childhood services, preschools, kindergartens and Early Learning Centres.
Get a feel for the early childhood settings that you’re most passionate about, with a minimum of three professional placements across a range of birth to 5 settings.
Your career
The Bachelor of Education (Birth to 5) opens up exciting opportunities and equips you with expert knowledge and practical skills to teach and support children from birth to 5 years old.
You'll gain hands-on experience and develop strong relationship-building skills that are essential for working in community settings like childcare centers, kindergartens, and preschools.
With this qualification, you'll be ready to inspire young minds and make a real impact in early childhood education.
Potential occupations include:
Teacher in long-day childcare and preschools
Teacher in a private Early Learning Centre
Team leader in long-day childcare services
Director or manager at a long-day childcare centre
Director at a kindergarten or preschool
Curriculum and policy advisor.
Potential employers include:
Long-day childcare centres
Preschools
Kindergartens
Early Learning Centre
Government
Not-for-profits.
Accreditation:
This degree is pending accreditation by the Australian Children’s Education and Care Quality Authority (ACECQA)
This academic qualification will enable you to apply for registration with the Teachers Registration Board of South Australia. You are advised to check registration requirements as they are subject to change.
Graduates looking for employment in other parts of Australia and overseas may be required to meet additional conditions. Graduates meet The ACECQA employment criteria.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
exploration of the importance of play for young children’s learning and development and the theories and philosophies that have and continue to influence early childhood education
the first year of study sees pre-service teachers embark on their first professional experience placement as they combine theory with practice
an opportunity to explore learning through the Expressive Arts including specialised experiences with experts in the field
Second year
A typical second year may include:
investigating how children develop literacy and numeracy understanding through play
pre-service teachers are introduced to teaching language and literacy acquisition whilst also focussing on pedagogies of belonging, relationships, and Indigenous education
a specialised study and placement working with babies aged birth to 2-years
Third year
A typical third year may include:
A 6-week preschool placement
topics in autism education, early reading, preschool numeracy, and the importance of strong relationships
pre-service teachers explore Indigenous approaches to play through bush kindergarten, and create a research project that builds on their educational interests
View study program
Practical experience
Pre-service teachers meet the ACECQA placement requirements for the degree with 80 professional experience days working with children aged birth to 5-years. This commences in first-year with 15-days working in a birth-5 setting of their choice. In second-year pre-service teachers explore the importance of respectful teaching with infants and toddlers with a 25-day placement. In their final year, pre-service teachers apply their understanding of preschool education in a 30-day placement (plus 10 days of visits to early childhood settings) working with children aged 3-5-years.
Practical experience requirements
Working with Children Check
Responding to Risks of Harm, Abuse and Neglect (RRHAN)
Medicare Immunisation evidence may be requested from some placement sites
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The ATAR and Selection Rank profile shows data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR who commenced the course in the previous admission year. As this course is new there is currently no ATAR and Selection Rank data available.
Student Profile
The Student Profile gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in a particular course. It provides data on students who commenced the course in the previous admission year. As this course is new there is currently no Student Profile data available
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
245161 (Bedford Park)
284951 (City)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, another Flinders degree you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Early Childhood Education (Birth-8)
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 06 Nov 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS