Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-medical-science-accelerated


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Medical Science (Accelerated)
Study Medical Science at Flinders
Investigate the science of the human body.
The Bachelor of Medical Science (Accelerated) enables high-capacity individuals to complete their Bachelor of Medical Science studies sooner than the traditional 3-year timeframe. The program of study encourages students to get a head start in pursuing further study or career opportunities. The course is designed to give graduates the knowledge base and skills to enter the health and medical science workforce, continue with a research higher degree or to continue with other health related degrees. As students progress through the degree they have more choice to eventually specialise in a range of areas in medical science.
This is an innovative and flexible degree providing exciting options for moving into a range of careers in the areas of medical science and research. It offers specialised study for those seeking to work as medical science professionals in such areas as microbiology, molecular medicine, physiology and anatomy, neuroscience, pharmacology and toxicology. As well as an appropriate pathway for postgraduate studies in
allied health fields
.
Students will complete the course in 2.5 years, completing 5 topics per semester and 4 non-semester topics.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
SACE stage two chemistry or equivalent.
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
90.00
Guaranteed selection rank
95.00
TAFElink
Advanced Diploma or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
244651
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
2.5 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $10,067
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
SACE stage two chemistry or equivalent.
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
028940C
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
2.5 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $41,400
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
244651 (Bedford Park)
Why study Medical Science at Flinders?
Access state-of-the-art teaching and research facilities
Choose topics from biological and biomedical science to combine a solid understanding of the human body
Laboratory practicals and experiments equip you with the laboratory skills to prepare you for work as a medical scientist
Be immersed in a strong clinical and research environment
Incorporate real word experience into academic study with a professional
placement
in medical science
Eligibility to apply, on graduation, for a sub-quota of up to 25 places in
Flinders’ Doctor of Medicine
(domestic students only)
Opportunity postgraduate pathways in allied health fields
Sub-quotas available for rural and remote medicine applicants (domestic students only)
Indigenous sub quotas also available
Your career
Graduates will find career opportunities in diverse areas such as medical research carried out in universities and government and industry-funded organisations, the pharmaceutical industry, government regulatory industries, industry-based biomedical companies, and diagnostic laboratories.
Potential occupations include:
bone densitometry technician
cardiac physiologist
medical laboratory technician
medical research scientist
development scientist.
Potential employers include:
universities
government
industry-funded organisations
the pharmaceutical industry
government regulatory bodies
biomedical companies
diagnostic laboratories.
See all events
Events
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
Choose from a flexible study plan where you can follow your own interests in the biomedical sciences, where there are a range of topics you can choose from such as neuroscience, pharmacology, genetics etc.
Or choose to study one of three majors:
Major 1 – Human physiology, neuroscience and anatomy
Major 2 – Molecular medicine
Major 3 – Human immunology and infectious diseases.
Psychology for surviving and thriving to help you succeed with the pace of the program.
Lead by example whilst also studying Innovation for social impact.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
Immerse yourself in an intensive biomedical science topic with scaffolded application to health and medicine such as advanced neuroscience, immunopathogenesis, haematology and transfusion science, advanced human molecular genetics.
Incorporate real word experience into academic study with a professional placement in medical science.
First year
Choose from a flexible study plan where you can follow your own interests in the biomedical sciences, where there are a range of topics you can choose from such as neuroscience, pharmacology, genetics etc.
Or choose to study one of three majors:
Major 1 – Human physiology, neuroscience and anatomy
Major 2 – Molecular medicine
Major 3 – Human immunology and infectious diseases.
Psychology for surviving and thriving to help you succeed with the pace of the program.
Lead by example whilst also studying Innovation for social impact.
Second year
Immerse yourself in an intensive biomedical science topic with scaffolded application to health and medicine such as advanced neuroscience, immunopathogenesis, haematology and transfusion science, advanced human molecular genetics.
Incorporate real word experience into academic study with a professional placement in medical science.
View study program
Honours year
On completion of this degree there is an opportunity to apply for an additional one-year Honours degree with mid-year entry available.
The Honours year provides students with the opportunity to undertake an individual research project in an area of medical science, from design to execution. Students will gain experience in research design, and develop their abilities in critical analysis of information, data management and theory generation using both qualitative and quantitative methods.
If you’re thinking about taking your career further with a postgraduate opportunities, do it with the university known for its results.
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Undertake a professional placement in your second year.
Get hands-on experience in a laboratory of your choice.
Develop important practical skills that enhance your employability.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.95
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
95.55
98.25
Lowest rank to receive an offer
64.30
65.00
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
35
28%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
0
0
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
63
51%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
11
9%
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
<5
<5
International Students
8
7%
All students
123
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Get inspired
Discover Flinders’ Medical Science degree, including what you can expect to study, the support available to you, unique learning experiences during your degree and what you can expect in your future career.
I chose to study at Flinders because it offers a highly-regarded Bachelor of Medical Science degree with outstanding lecturers, researchers and academics in each field and topic.
Tasfia Khanam, Graduate, Bachelor of Medical Science.
Read my story
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
244651 (Bedford Park)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Rural and remote sub-quotas
An annual subquota is available for applicants from rural and remote areas. To be considered for the rural and remote subquota applicants must apply to SATAC in the normal way.
Applicants must also, within 10 working days after submitting the SATAC application, submit a Statutory Declaration to SATAC which confirms that they have lived in non-metropolitan areas of Australia (Remoteness Classifications RA2 to RA5) for at least 5 consecutive years, or 10 years cumulatively, from birth (i.e. during any period of their life). A Statutory Declaration form can be
downloaded here
(PDF 95KB).
Applicants can check their eligibility in accordance with the definition above using
the search tool
at the Remoteness Area (RA) Locator site. Filter your search using the ASGS Remoteness Areas (2016) layer.
Am I eligible?
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Health Sciences
Bachelor of Medical Science (Vision Science)/
Master of Optometry
Bachelor of Nutrition and Dietetics
Bachelor of Science
Bachelor of Science (Biotechnology)
Bachelor of Speech Pathology
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 24 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS