Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-criminology


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Criminology
Study Criminology at Flinders
True Crime. Real Impact.
A Flinders Criminology degree opens up a range of career opportunities for you to create positive social impact, with a future-focused and socially responsible curriculum created in partnership with industry.
Through innovative research, teaching excellence, partnerships and real world, practical experience, SA’s largest and most-experienced criminology team has built its reputation over 40 years. This is your chance to learn from award-winning teachers and world-class researchers, and take your first steps towards a rewarding career.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
65.00
Guaranteed selection rank
70.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
234661 (Bedford Park) 284241 (City)
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $16,320
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
092879E
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $33,900
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
234661 (Bedford Park)
284241 (City)
Why study Criminology
at Flinders?
Learn from the largest and most-experienced criminology team, which has built its reputation over 40 years
State-of-the-art facilities to learn in
Undertake an Industry Project, where you will complete research and provide insights to an industry partner - who could be your future employer
Complete an Industry Placement on a project-based task within an organisation
Take your passion for criminology to other industries, with a large range of degree combinations to explore
Choose a career that makes a difference
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree
Bachelor of Information Technology (Network and Cybersecurity Systems)
Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science
Bachelor of Laws and Legal Practice
Bachelor of Laws and Legal Practice (Honours)
Bachelor of Psychological Science
Bachelor of Science (Forensic and Analytical Science)
.
Search all combined degree options
Your career
Graduates have enjoyed a wide choice of careers and diverse employment trajectories in Australia and overseas. Many move into employment in the criminal and social justice sectors.
Others work across various government, not for profit support and welfare services that are crucial to positive justice outcomes for the community, including people who have been victims of crime, and people who have offended.
Elsewhere, Flinders Criminology graduates have applied their knowledge and skills across a range of research, policy-making, teaching and training outlets - obtaining employment through governments, universities, councils and in other educational contexts.
Potential occupations include:
Police Officer (State, Federal)
Youth Worker
Forensic Investigator
Cybersecurity Analyst
Defence / Intelligence Analyst
Victim Support Officer
Risk Prevention Consultant
Political and Policy Advisor
Counsellor / Case Manager
Corrections Officer
Media Researcher / Producer
See all events
Events
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
Foundational topics in criminology introducing areas such as crime and criminology, the criminal justice system, law in Australian society, research methods and Indigenous studies
Choice of elective topics in psychology, political science, sociology and innovative and creative thinking topics.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
Enhanced topics building on the first year that explore theory, research and contemporary criminological issues pertaining to policing and corrections, victims of crime, and cybercrime
Choice from a wide range of elective topics that reflect your interests in this diverse field, including youth crime, forensic science, public policy, psychology, and terrorism.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
Exposure to advanced topics where you will apply your knowledge of criminology theory and advanced research methods and analysis
Immerse yourself in live industry projects, working on real-world problems with industry partners
A choice of innovative elective topics providing an enhanced understanding of areas such as international criminal justice, counselling, strategic communications and the media representations of crime. You may also be able to complete a placement in a criminal justice agency.
Honours year
A typical honours year may include:
Honours-level topics in advanced theory and research application, and applied research methods, and industry communication skills.
An Honours thesis comprising an independent research project supervised by one of our academic researchers.
The option to undertake empirical, field research.
View study program
View study program (City)
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
96.80
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
70.30
76.75
Lowest rank to receive an offer
58.35
66.20
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
21
22%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
0
0
Work and life experience
N/P
N/P
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
41
42%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
8
8%
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
18
19%
International Students
<5
<5
All students
97
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
234661 (Bedford Park)
284241 (City)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, another Flinders degree you might want to include in your list is the
Bachelor of Law and Society
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS