Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-creative-arts-fashion


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Fashion)
Study Fashion at Flinders
Stitch together the skills for a bespoke career in fashion.
Offered in collaboration with TAFE SA*, this industry-focused degree combines practical skills with theoretical knowledge for an excellent outcome. You will learn about garment construction, patternmaking, drawing and design as well as academic and professional communication and marketing.
* TAFE SA RTO Code: 41026
Don't fulfil the entry requirements? Not to worry. Flinders offers several
VET pathway options
for Fashion.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
Minimum selection rank
60.00
Guaranteed selection rank
65.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
224901
Delivery mode
In person:
– Adelaide CBD
– City (some topics)
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $12,000
Fees for each component are charged separately by each institution.
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
115226D
Delivery mode
In person:
– Adelaide CBD
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $33,800
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
224901 (Adelaide CBD)
Core topics are taught in the Adelaide CBD at the
Adelaide College of Arts
,
TAFE SA Adelaide city campus
and
Flinders city campus
with some electives offered online or at Bedford Park. View the
Study Program
for more information.
Core topics are taught in the Adelaide CBD at the
Adelaide College of Arts
,
TAFE SA Adelaide city campus
and
Flinders city campus
with some electives offered online or at Bedford Park. View the
Study Program
for more information.
Why study Fashion at Flinders
Study a unique combination of hands-on garment design and production, creative arts topics, and business and cultural aspects of the industry
Specialise in either small-scale business, such as custom garment design, or large-scale business, such as global fashion brands
Combine study at Flinders and TAFE SA, and work in dedicated fashion workshops for an enriched experience
Gain insight into the business side of the industry, including valuable skills in communication for the offshore production environment
Learn about computer-aided design technologies that contribute to design, production and marketing processes
Your career
Flinders graduates include award-winning actors, animators, directors, cinematographers, editors, producers and writers. Your diverse range of skills and portfolio of creative achievements will make you attractive to a wide range of employers in the arts and communication industries internationally.
Potential occupations include:
fashion designer
product developer
garment technician
production assistant
fashion design assistant.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
The basics of garment design and construction through areas of colour theory, patterns, and familiarity with the fashion workshops and their equipment.
A core topic to develop your academic and professional communication skills.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
Developing your garment design and construction skills through workshop and retail projects.
Learning a range of digital skills in fashion design and studying of the history of fashion and culture.
An environmental studies topic to develop your understanding of the possible global impacts of the industry, and further business skills are offered.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
Learning about entrepreneurship, events, and the social impacts of fashion.
The annual graduate fashion parade, which will develop and exhibit either your own range of bespoke garments, or a product development range, as used in large fashion businesses.
View study program
View study program (VET Entry)
View study program
Practical experience
Gain extensive hands-on experience in a fashion design workshop, cover vital elements of conceptual design principles and the use of computer-aided design technology, and develop strong business skills and interpersonal strengths for application in a successful career.
Study abroad
You will have the opportunity to undertake semester exchange programs, or summer programs in locations such as Italy or France. A field trip to Hong Kong is also held most years.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
98.10
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
77.63
82.13
Lowest rank to receive an offer
51.20
60.05
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
58
23%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
28
11%
Work and life experience
23
9%
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
94
38%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
36
15%
International Students
<5
<5
All students
247
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Fashion at Flinders
View our graduate fashion film featuring student designs.
Hear from Fashion student Kat Hill
Study Fashion at Flinders
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
224901 (Adelaide CBD)
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course). For applicants using their SACE (Year 12) results (or equivalent), entry is subject to achieving a minimum selection rank of 60.
Applicants who do not meet the University’s minimum entry requirements may still be considered for admission subject to meeting certain conditions. Applicants will start in the TAFE component and upon completing the equivalent of a Certificate III/Diploma (for example) applicants will have their University offer confirmed.
Don't fulfil the entry requirements? Not to worry. Flinders offers several VET pathway options for Fashion.
Explore Fashion VET pathway options
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Costume Design)
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Visual Arts)
Bachelor of Arts
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check the entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online.
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
Additional entry requirements
Students will start in the TAFE qualification and upon completing the equivalent of a Certificate III or Diploma, for example, will have the University offer confirmed.
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 01 Oct 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS