Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-social-work


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Social Work
Study Social Work at Flinders
Advance social justice.
Social Work is a career for those who are passionate about making a difference in the world. This course will give you the knowledge, skills and values required for effective social work practice. You'll graduate prepared to work in a range of contexts, including government, not-for-profit and private organisations.
Accredited by the Australian Association of Social Work, our Bachelor of Social Work will qualify you to work as a social worker in a range of health and social welfare services.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
70.00
Guaranteed selection rank
75.00
TAFElink
Diploma or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
224761 (Bedford Park) 284611 (City)
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Online: No
                                                                
																
																	Refer to the
online option here
Duration
4 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $13,557
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
7.0
Writing
7.0
Speaking
7.0
Listening
7.0
Reading
7.0
Pearson
overall
65
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
083453F
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Duration
4 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $34,600
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
224761 (Bedford Park)
284611 (City)
Why study Social Work at Flinders
We're number one in SA in Social Work for overall educational experience, as well as full-time employment*
Enjoy flexible study options. Enrol in topics internally (face-to-face) or externally (online)
Learn from teachers who are leaders in social work research and practice
Explore topics with a focus on social impact, such as Decolonising Social Work, Violence and Abuse, and Sustainable Social Work
Gain practical training in our excellent on-campus facilities, including a Social Work Simulation and Skills Lab
Our Social Work Innovation Research Living Space (SWIRLS) is a leading national social work research centre, undertaking research that uses evidence and lived experience, to create innovative solutions in and around social work.
* The Good Universities Guide 2023 (postgraduate), public SA-founded universities only
Your career
The Bachelor of Social Work prepares you for a wide range of careers, including employment opportunities with government, not-for-profit and private organisations.
Employment opportunities:
direct practice with individuals
group work
community development
research
social policy.
Areas of employment include:
child protection
health
mental health
domestic violence
homelessness.
Professional accreditation/recognition
Graduates are eligible for membership of the Australian Association of Social Workers. Indigenous graduates and students can join a network of Aboriginal social workers through Indigenous Allied Health Australia, which centres on Aboriginal professional practice.
In accordance with AASW requirements, students are required to attend the Bedford Park campus in South Australia for 20 days of face-to-face learning, focusing on practice skills. This is taught in intensives so that students in regional and remote areas and interstate can travel to attend.
This is an AASW-accredited qualification. It is an entry qualification into the social work profession and has been determined to meet the Australian Social Work Education and Accreditation Standards.
Essential Requirements
The Australian Association of Social Workers (AASW) is the professional representative body of social workers, and the professional accreditor of social work programs, in Australia. Professional accreditation is vital to maintaining the integrity and accountability of the social work profession, ensuring that social work graduates are equipped with the professional competencies and learning outcomes necessary for entry into professional practice.
The Bachelor of Social Work and Master of Social Work (Qualifying) are AASW-accredited qualifications. Both are entry qualifications into the social work profession and have been determined to meet the Australian Social Work Education and Accreditation Standards (ASWEAS). Review the essential requirements of these courses below.
Review requirements
Prospective students should also be aware of the requirement to complete 1000 hours of field placement in at least two separate practice settings, and undergo related screening and police checks.
Prospective students who anticipate that they might find it difficult to meet these requirements are encouraged to contact the BSW or MSW Course Coordinator to discuss their concerns.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
social work topics including introduction to social work and interpersonal skills
introductory topics in Indigenous studies. psychology, sociology, social policy and healthcare systems.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
social work topics focusing on decolonising social work, social work theories, social policy practice, practicing social work with individuals, and working with groups and communities
topics in lifespan development and human service practice and law.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
topics focusing on professional judgement and decision making, research and evaluation, mental health, children and families: wellbeing and protection, and identity, self and agency
an intensive field placement.
Fourth year
A typical fourth year may include:
topics including advanced social work theories, violence and abuse, and sustainable social work
an intensive field placement
a choice of option topics.
Based on a competitive process, some students will be invited to transfer into the Bachelor of Social Work (Honours) in the fourth year of the course.
View study program
View study program (City)
Practical experience
Throughout your studies, you'll gain practical experience preparing you for an exciting career:
Develop your practice skills in our on-campus Social Work Simulation and Skills Lab
Undertake two supervised field education placements (in accordance with AASW requirements)
Placement options include child protection, community health, hospital social work, research, social planning, aged care, social work with migrant groups, correctional services and more.
What you'll need
Prior to your first placement, you will be required to provide the following:
Screening assessments through the Department of Human Services (DHS) for working with children, in the aged care sector and disability services
National Police Check
Child Safe Environments training
Driver's licence (required for most placements)
Students may be required to address other industry-specific conditions.
Please note that eligibility for placement is critical to progressing through this degree.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
96.80
98.10
Median rank to receive an offer
75.50
81.00
Lowest rank to receive an offer
61.80
70.05
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
42
38%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
23
21%
Work and life experience
6
5%
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
19
17%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
14
13%
International Students
7
6%
All students
111
100%
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
224761 (Bedford Park)
284611 (City)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Inherent requirements
The Bachelor of Social Work and Master of Social Work meets external
Australian Association of Social Work (AASW)
accreditation requirements. Both  programs provide graduates with the necessary qualification to be eligible for membership to the AASW, and practice as social workers.
The Statement of Inherent Requirements is designed to help prospective students make informed decisions about whether they will be in a position to complete the requirements of either a Bachelor of Social Work or Master of Social Work. If you intend to enrol in either of these degrees look carefully at the inherent requirements to determine whether you will be able to meet them.
View inherent requirements
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, another Flinders degree you might want to include in your list is the
Bachelor of Arts
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
Inherent requirements
The Bachelor of Social Work and Master of Social Work meets external
Australian Association of Social Work (AASW)
accreditation requirements. Both  programs provide graduates with the necessary qualification to be eligible for membership to the AASW, and practice as social workers.
The Statement of Inherent Requirements is designed to help prospective students make informed decisions about whether they will be in a position to complete the requirements of either a Bachelor of Social Work or Master of Social Work. If you intend to enrol in either of these degrees look carefully at the inherent requirements to determine whether you will be able to meet them.
View inherent requirements
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
For applicants seeking admission from semester 1, 2021:
Must demonstrate English language proficiency of Academic IELTS 7.0 overall and 7.0 in Writing, Speaking, Reading and Listening or the equivalent.
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 10 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS