Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-creative-industries-film-television


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Creative Industries (Film and Television)
Study Creative Industries (Film and Television) at Flinders
Get ready for a career across the creative industries.
The Bachelor of Creative Industries (Film and Television) is aimed at emerging filmmakers and offers a flexible study program, allowing you to pursue your interests and explore film style and history, major filmmakers and industries, and theoretical concepts.
You will also work on student-led productions, learn technical skills and operate filmmaking equipment and become part of the Flinders creative community. Uniquely, we teach you how to make a TV pilot as your final major project. These topics are taught by passionate teachers, research experts and filmmakers who are actively involved in the industry.
Our graduates emerge with skills and knowledge to enable them to work independently and collaboratively.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
60.00
Guaranteed selection rank
65.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
244301 (Bedford Park) 284211 (City)
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $14,100
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
102679D
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $33,800
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
244301 (Bedford Park)
284211 (City)
Why study Creative Industries
(Film and Television) at Flinders
Provides a comprehensive understanding of film and television studies.
Offers a unique curriculum, combining critical studies with production topics, together with a flexible study plan.
Encouraging opportunities for cross-disciplinary creative practice, and interdisciplinary creative collaboration.
Hands-on learning in small classes, taught by passionate teachers, research experts and filmmakers.
Plan, develop and complete a body of creative work, including a final year TV pilot.
Build your network by collaborating on student-led productions and an industry work placement.
Your career
This degree prepares you for careers across the industry, combining practical filmmaking skills with critical analysis, and a high-level study of film, television, and arts industries.
Potential occupations include:
Marketing or advertising content creator
Independent creative producer in sport, health, science and tourism
Film programmer, exhibition, and distribution roles
Film and television crew.
Potential employers include:
Corporate or government organisations
News and media organisations
Events, galleries, museums
Healthcare and charitable organisations
Sports organisations and broadcasters
Cinemas, arts festivals, and film distributors
Screen production companies and producers
Postproduction studios.
Accreditation / recognition:
Students and graduates can apply to join the
Australian Writer's Guild
,
Australian Directors’ Guild
,
Australian Cinematographers Society
,
Australian Production Designers’ Guild
,
Australia Screen Sound Guild
, and
Australian Screen Editors
.
Crew may join
Media, Entertainment & Arts Alliance (MEAA)
and producers
Screen Producers Australia
Graduates can apply for grants from
Carclew
(under 26),
Helpmann Academy
(up to 5 years post graduation) and
The Mercury
.
“
I got the opportunity to direct a TV pilot which has always been a dream of mine.
Meeting friends that will move into the same industry as me is the most valuable thing I gained from this degree. I’ve also got to learn about the parts of filmmaking that I am most passionate about. Helen Carter is an incredible example of a woman in the industry and Claire Henry knows her topics so deeply that it's infectious.
Chaase Nigel-Brownlee, Bachelor of Creative Industries (Film & Television)
”
Study Film, Screen & Television at Flinders
"I've had the opportunity to work with many ambitious and talented fellow students whilst on set. I've made close friends, practiced essential skills, and created some work I'm very proud of."
Luna Grzan
Bachelor of Creative Industries (Film & Television)
Connect with industry
Adelaide Film Festival (AFF) cements Adelaide's place on the international stage as a hub of vibrancy, creativity, and innovation. Over twelve days this world-renowned festival provides a wide range of opportunities for festival-goers to be inspired, entertained, and educated, through a unique program of the best of global and national cinema, forums, collaborations, and special events.  AFF celebrates diversity and excellence through creative storytelling and provides a strong platform for new and emerging Australian talent.
Graduates can apply for the
Helpmann Academy grants
and can apply to join the
Australian Cinematographers Society
,
Australian Screen Editors
and
Australian Writer's Guild
.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
An overview of screen production techniques, the fundamentals of film analysis, and an introduction to major creative artists and media theories
Develop your production skills: camera, sound, lighting, editing and post-production.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
Produce your own short documentary, combining theory and practice.
Study of major media industries (Hollywood, Australian media)
Develop, write and pitch a short video project
Have the opportunity to undertake an international field trip
Third year
A typical third year may include:
Collaborate with peers on a student-led TV pilot.
Undertake a work placement with an industry partner
Study film and television history and contemporary screen culture
Develop and make a short video production
Honours year
A typical Honours year may include:
The Honours year is focused on providing an opportunity for students to complete a year of independent creative work under the supervision of an academic staff member:
Produce your own short film, documentary, web series, feature film or TV pilot​
Bring together a team of cast and crew​
Showcase your skills and find an audience
View study program
View study program (City)
Practical experience
Practical experience is interwoven throughout this degree. You’ll have the opportunity to put your theory into practice with real-world industry opportunities and large-scale student-led productions.
Work Placements are embedded across the degree:
100 hours experience in an industry or professional workplace
Simulated workplace settings on campus
Assessment activities designed to simulate authentic workplaces
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas with a student exchange program, and intensive field trips to international film festivals (e.g. a New Colombo Plan trip to Hong Kong) through a limited number of fully-funded student places.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
98.10
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
79.40
82.35
Lowest rank to receive an offer
53.90
60.85
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
22
38%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
22
38%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
5
9%
International Students
5
9%
All students
58
100%
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
244301 (Bedford Park)
284211 (City)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
For applicants using their SACE (Year 12) results (or equivalent), entry is subject to achieving a minimum selection rank of 60.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Screen)
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic pathway programs
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 24 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS