Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-exercise-sport-science-master-clinical-exercise-physiology


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Exercise and Sport Science / Master of Clinical Exercise Physiology
Study Clinical Exercise Physiology at Flinders
Your accelerated pathway to a masters in clinical exercise physiology.
High-achieving students can progress from an exercise and sport science degree to a masters degree with a clinical exercise physiology focus through this five-year degree combination. The Master of Clinical Exercise Physiology includes a further 360 hours of clinical placement to prepare you for the delivery of preventative exercise programs and exercise interventions for the management of chronic and complex conditions.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
Knowledge of SACE stage two biology or equivalent is assumed.
2024 selection rank
85.00
Guaranteed selection rank
90.00
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
234571
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
5 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Annual indicative fee
2024: $11,000
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
Knowledge of SACE stage two biology or equivalent is assumed.
IELTS
overall
6.5
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Listening
6.0
Reading
6.0
Pearson
overall
58
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
105500G
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
5 years full-time
Annual fee
2024: $42,400
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
234571 (Bedford Park)
Why study Clinical Exercise Physiology at Flinders
Learn from exceptional lecturers in state-of-the-art facilities
Develop industry experience through invaluable placement opportunities
Qualify for a career in the evolving field of exercise and sport science
Study in the area where preventative health meets the fitness industry
Undertake unique topics in fundamentals of exercise and sport science, exercise prescription in motor control and learning, and advanced exercise and sport science.
Your career
Continuation to the Master of Clinical Exercise Physiology prepares you for a career as an exercise physiologist. Exercise physiologists prescribe and deliver exercise-based lifestyle and behaviour modification programs to prevent and treat injury and disease.
Potential occupations
Exercise or sport scientist
Exercise physiologist
Health and injury prevention adviser
Aged care health and wellness
Health and wellness coordinator
Cardiac technician
Sport and exercise science support officer
Active living project officer
By continuing to the Master of Clinical Exercise Physiology, opportunities could include:
Rehabilitation/allied health work
Private practice Acute care
Day-care rehabilitation
Home-care rehabilitation
Potential employers include:
hospitals
community health units
workplaces
gymnasiums
aged-care facilities
disability service organisations
sporting clubs and associations
private health clinics
return to work providers
schools, universities and TAFE
sporting academies
not-for-profit or community organisations.
Professional accreditation/recognition:
This program is accredited by Exercise and Sports Science Australia. Graduates are eligible to apply to be recognised as Accredited Exercise Physiologists and Accredited Exercise Scientists.
See all events
Events
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
core topics such as an introduction to exercise and sport science, human bioscience, legal and ethical aspects of health care, nutrition, and physical activity and health.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
core topics such as exercise prescription and movement learning, human physiology, psychological perspectives of health, and biomechanics.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
advanced topics in exercise and sport science, psychology of exercise, health and behaviour change, and quantitative methods of social health research
140 hours of workplace experience.
Fourth and fifth year
For students continuing on to the masters, a typical fourth and fifth year might include:
topics in interprofessional practice, chronic disease management and private practice, exercise management in priority conditions, advanced exercise prescription and musculoskeletal injury management, and clinical exercise assessment and prescription
clinical placements, which may be undertaken at various metropolitan or rural and remote locations.
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Undertake a compulsory 140-hour placement practicum in the Bachelor of Exercise and Sport Science, preparing you with interdisciplinary skills and knowledge of health, sport and exercise frameworks.
Undertake a further compulsory 360 hours in clinical exercise physiology placement in the Master of Clinical Exercise Physiology.
Get inspired
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
95.75
97.25
Median rank to receive an offer
92.45
93.20
Lowest rank to receive an offer
74.65
86.15
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
11
50%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
0
0
Work and life experience
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
5
23%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
N/P
N/P
International Students
0
0%
All students
22
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
234571 (Bedford Park)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Rural and remote sub-quotas
An annual subquota is available for applicants from rural and remote areas. To be considered for the rural and remote subquota applicants must apply to SATAC in the normal way.
Applicants must also, within 10 working days after submitting the SATAC application, submit a Statutory Declaration to SATAC which confirms that they have lived in non-metropolitan areas of Australia (Remoteness Classifications RA2 to RA5) for at least 5 consecutive years, or 10 years cumulatively, from birth (i.e. during any period of their life). A Statutory Declaration form can be
downloaded here
(PDF 95KB).
Applicants can check their eligibility in accordance with the definition above using
the search tool
at the Remoteness Area (RA) Locator site. Filter your search using the ASGS Remoteness Areas (2016) layer.
Am I eligible?
Northern Territory sub-quotas
An annual subquota is available for applicants from the Northern Territory (NT). To be considered for the NT subquota applicants must apply to SATAC in the normal way.
Applicants who gain entry in this degree through the subquota will be registered with the Flinders NT and required to travel and reside in the Northern Territory for their final year clinical placements. The Flinders NT will subsidise travel expenses up to the equivalent of an economy class one-way fare. Contact the Flinders NT at
fnt.placements@flinders.edu.au
for further details prior to application.
Applicants must meet one or more of the following criteria to be eligible for consideration for a subquota place: must have their principal place of residence in the NT; or must have been resident in the NT for a minimum period of two years, within the last five years; or must be a recent graduate (within the last 5 years) or a current student of Charles Darwin University.
Applicants must also, within 10 working days after submitting the SATAC application, submit a Statutory Declaration to SATAC which confirms that they meet the criteria for the NT subquota.
Download a Statutory Declaration form

Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Health Sciences
(Life Sciences)
Bachelor of Medical Science
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 11 Oct 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS