Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/honours-bachelor-design-technology


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Design and Technology (Honours) 1 year
Undertake an Honours year in Design and Technology
Make new ideas a reality.
Transform ideas into product designs that are functional and aesthetically on point. Develop your creative design skills and combine them with technical knowledge giving you everything you need to use production methods and materials creatively.
This honours degree will allow you to extend the knowledge you have gained in your first three years study into innovative design, production methods and the creative use of materials. It will allow you to focus further on product designs that are both functional and aesthetically pleasing and which innovatively combine user needs with technology and commercial reality.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

Why undertake an Honours year in Design and Technology at Flinders?
Access world-class facilities in the Tonsley Innovation District
Enhance your employability with highly attractive, vital skills in the rapidly changing innovation sector
Match a problem with technology to create a commercial solution
Gain an understanding of industrial design, technology and innovation in one degree
Combine with an engineering, science, information technology or environment degree and boost your competitive edge in the job market
Your career
Open up a world of careers in product/service based organisations in a myriad of roles. Prepare to solve problems and create commercial solutions with your understanding of design, innovation management, science, technology and engineering.
Potential occupations include:
product designer
business development manager
commercialisation specialist
graduate consultant
innovation strategist.
Potential employers include:
consultancy agencies
public and private organisations
Professional accreditation/recognition
All our Bachelor of Engineering and Master of Engineering degrees are accredited by Engineers Australia at the level of professional engineer. Professional engineering courses accredited by Engineers Australia are recognised internationally under the Washington Accord. Graduates meet the academic requirements for attaining chartered professional engineering status.
The degree is recognised by the Design Institute of Australia.
Your path toward a higher degree by research
Studying Honours will provide a solid grounding in research skills and enhanced knowledge to help you progress towards a higher degree by research. Use skills you will acquire in research, critical analysis and innovative problem solving and be a part of new discoveries that will shape our world.
Find out more
Your path toward a higher degree by research
Studying Honours will provide a solid grounding in research skills and enhanced knowledge to help you progress towards a higher degree by research. Use skills you will acquire in research, critical analysis and innovative problem solving and be a part of new discoveries that will shape our world.
Find out more
What you will study
During your Honours year, you will complete an independent research project with the support of a mentor. The project is completed over five topics (one-year full time or part-time equivalent). As well as the research project topics, you will also complete a research methods topic and two advanced topics across a range of research focused areas.
View study program
Entry requirements
Entry into one-year Honours is highly competitive. If you have demonstrated academic excellence (a Grade Point Average of 5.00 or above) during your bachelor degree you are invited to apply for Honours.
Whether you’re invited to apply, or want to apply, you will need to contact the Honours coordinator in your discipline to discuss your project and arrange for supervision.
Search for an Honours coordinator
Apply
When to apply
Applications for 2025 are now open.
How to apply
Submit your application directly to Flinders University through the online application system.
If you have never studied at or made an application to Flinders University
, you can register and submit your application for admission to a 1-year Honours course using the
eApplication portal
. You will receive two emails once your application is completed: confirmation of application submission; and a second email with your student ID. Note, it may take 1-4 hours for your student ID to be created.
If you have studied at Flinders University within the last 12 months
you can submit your application for admission to a one-year Honours course via the
Student System
. You can apply for admission by selecting the
My Applications
tab at the top of the page, and searching for your course.
If you studied at Flinders University more than 12 months ago
you will need to
reactivate your FAN
first. With an active FAN you will then be able to submit your application for admission via the
Student System
as advised above.
Enquire
For all course enquiries phone, email or complete the enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Enquire
If you have a question about how to apply, please review our
Frequently Asked Questions
before submitting an enquiry.
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 23 Nov 2022
FOREVER FEARLESS