Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-business-analytics


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Business Analytics
Study Business Analytics at Flinders
Transform data into decisions with a Bachelor of Business Analytics, designed to equip you with cutting-edge tools and techniques.
Want to know how data can help businesses succeed? With the Bachelor of Business Analytics, you’ll learn how to turn data into insights for big questions.
You’ll become skilled in analysing data, predicting trends, and managing information, all while working on analysis tools used by professionals and on hands-on projects.
Whether you’re interested in business, healthcare, finance, or technology, this course sets you up for exciting careers where you’ll use data to make smart decisions and help companies grow.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
N/A
Guaranteed selection rank
70.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
245191 (Bedford Park) 284931 (City)
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2025: $16,992
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
116920G
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $36,500
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
245191 (Bedford Park)
284931 (City)
Why study Business Analytics at Flinders
This degree provides participants with practical commercial skills to interpret data and information to drive organisational value and gain a competitive edge
You will learn how to lead with data-driven confidence and obtain a strategic mindset
You will use analytics tools and techniques like machine learning models and integrate artificial intelligence used by professionals
Work on real-world projects and obtain industry experience to analyse future trends and outcomes and grow your professional network
The course is offered in person at Bedford Park or the Flinders’ city campus.
Your career
Graduates can pursue careers in various sectors, utilising analytical skills to drive business growth and innovation.
Potential occupations include:
Business analyst
Management consultant
Customer insights analyst
Venture analyst
Data analyst
Business intelligence analyst
Market research analyst
Quantitative analyst
Data manager
Innovation consultant
Potential employers include:
Technology firms
Financial institutions and banks
Consulting companies
Retail corporations
Government agencies and departments
Insurance firms
Information technology companies
Research institutes
Utilities companies
E-commerce platforms
Management Analyst jobs are in high demand
⬆︎
25%
Management and Organisation Analysts
⬆︎
24%
Information and Organisation Professionals
⬆︎
22%
Business and Systems Analysts
Projected employment growth - ten years to 2033, Jobs and Skills Australia 2024.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
First-year studies focus on foundational knowledge in business and computing principles, and an introduction to analytics tools. Topics include: Harnessing the Power of Fintech, Fundamentals in Computing, Interpreting and Visualising Business Data, Finance and Accounting for Leaders.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
In the second year, students delve into more advanced analytics tools and techniques, ethics in data use, and option to take a minor in Data Analytics or 2 electives from across the university. Topics include: Uncovering Global Market Insights, Database Modelling and Information Management, HR Information Systems & Analytics, Business Forecasting.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
The final year emphasises strategic decision-making using analytics, projects reflecting real-world scenarios, an industry placement or project, and further specialisation through a minor or an elective. Topics include: Digital Marketing & Analysis, Supply Chain Analytics, and AI, Cybersecurity and the Future of Work.
View study program
View study program (City)
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce, including an industry placement or industry project where you will have the opportunity to apply knowledge, practice skills and build networks in the industry.
Study abroad
Flinders has a series of international exchange links that give you a chance to study part of your degree overseas, from a short-term three-week study tour to a yearlong exchange at any one of 80 partner universities around the world.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The ATAR and Selection Rank profile shows data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR who commenced the course in the previous admission year. As this course is new there is currently no ATAR and Selection Rank data available.
Student Profile
The Student Profile gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in a particular course. It provides data on students who commenced the course in the previous admission year. As this course is new there is currently no Student Profile data available
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
245191 (Bedford Park)
284931 (City)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
After completing the one-year Flinders University Diploma in Business, applicants have guaranteed entry into second year of the Bachelor of Business Analytics.
Explore the Diploma in Business
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, another Flinders degree you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Business
Bachelor of Commerce
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 10 Oct 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS