Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-public-health


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Public Health
Study Public Health at Flinders
Students can choose to study this course 100% online, or face to face.
Public health graduates are in demand to address globally significant health challenges and benefit populations.
Follow your passion by choosing distinctive learning pathways, from biomedical, research, and social determinants of population health and equity, to Indigenous health, economic factors, and global approaches to health issues, such as obesity and heart disease. This degree will help you put theory into practice to prepare you for employment via industry placements, interdisciplinary problem-solving, and specific topics which develop skills in teamwork, leadership, and advocacy as an agent of change.
The focus on research development throughout the course also provides clear pathways to further learning and research experience.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
70.00
Guaranteed selection rank
75.00
TAFElink
Diploma or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
244341
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: Yes
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $11,400
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
102949J
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $34,600
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
244341 (Bedford Park)
Why study Public Health at Flinders
Develop intellectually, socially, and as an emerging professional
Experience a year-long work placement project to develop leadership, self-management, and professional communication skills
Acquire culturally-diverse perspectives which reflect our society
Participate in interprofessional learning workshops and authentic case-studies to develop communication and problem-solving
Engage with meaningful current issues such as climate change, pandemics, and the social determinants of health
Your career
Graduates can gain employment in public health policy, management and practice. For the highly regarded postgraduate Doctor of Medicine (MD) course at Flinders University, Bachelor of Public Health graduates are eligible to be considered under the admissions sub-quota for 30% of the places  - therefore increasing their chances of securing a place in the MD.
Potential occupations include:
community development officer (e.g. women’s heath, Indigenous health)
health promotions officer
clinical trials coordinator
public health research officer
epidemiologist/data analyst
Potential employers include:
World Health Organisation
government departments of health in policy, surveillance, health promotion, drug and alcohol services
research and higher education settings
community organisations such as Heart Foundation, Cancer Council
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
foundational knowledge about public health and public health policy
examination of how health systems work in Australia and elsewhere
studies around public health from an Indigenous perspective
study of the body’s structures and defences against disease
the opportunity to build work-readiness skills by choosing topics on innovation and professional communication
effective strategies for optimising learning and study skills.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
consolidation and deepening of the learning from the previous year
the opportunity to engage with the big issues – justice and sustainability, global health and development, the enablers and barriers to health promotion, race, power, and identity, and food consumption.
expansion of research and learning skills, and professional skills.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
a step back to look at the big picture, bringing together your learning from the previous two years, to see how you can become an agent of change
a year-long work-placement project to hone your professional skills, network with future employers, and support your transition to employment
interprofessional learning workshops to learn skills in collaboration and communication, working through authentic case studies such as how to manage global health crises, how to undertake epidemiological research, and how economics impacts on health policies and outcomes.
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Professional placement with a local health organisation to develop an authentic public health project.
'Training in epidemiologic research and health management skills, to understand and evaluate health issues.
Problem-based interprofessional training through siumlated learning and team work.
What you will need
Students must provide evidence that they have completed Work Integrated Learning (WIL) compliance obligations before they begin their WIL activity, and must continue to comply with all WIL obligations throughout the activity. Students will need to adhere to WIL policies and procedures as stipulated by the university regarding student responsibilities.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.55
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
94.92
97.85
Lowest rank to receive an offer
70.75
79.90
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
5
23%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
5
23%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
<5
<5
International Students
6
27%
All students
22
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
244341 (Bedford Park)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Rural and remote sub-quotas
An annual subquota is available for applicants from rural and remote areas. To be considered for the rural and remote subquota applicants must apply to SATAC in the normal way.
Applicants must also, within 10 working days after submitting the SATAC application, submit a Statutory Declaration to SATAC which confirms that they have lived in non-metropolitan areas of Australia (Remoteness Classifications RA2 to RA5) for at least 5 consecutive years, or 10 years cumulatively, from birth (i.e. during any period of their life). A Statutory Declaration form can be
downloaded here
(PDF 95KB).
Applicants can check their eligibility in accordance with the definition above using
the search tool
at the Remoteness Area (RA) Locator site. Filter your search using the ASGS Remoteness Areas (2016) layer.
Am I eligible?
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous Higher Education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through Adult Entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Year 12 applicants are expected to obtain a selection rank of 80 or above (after the addition of any relevant bonus points) to be competitive for a place.
Explore our pathways
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic pathway programs
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 24 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS