Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-paramedicine


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Paramedicine
Study Paramedicine at Flinders
Deliver best-practice patient care from site to hospital.
Develop the skills, knowledge and attitudes to manage pre-hospital emergency and non-emergency situations in a manner consistent with best practice. This is an approved degree for anyone seeking a career as a paramedic with an Australian state ambulance service or a research career in pre-hospital science. Graduates may also qualify for employment with ambulance services in international jurisdictions such as the United Kingdom.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
90.00
Guaranteed selection rank
N/A
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
244971
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $9,000
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
7.0
Writing
7.0
Speaking
7.0
Listening
7.0
Reading
7.0
Pearson
overall
65
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
111908K
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $40,600
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
244971 (Bedford Park)
Why study Paramedicine at Flinders
Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (AHPRA) approved program for first professional registration as a Paramedic under the National Law
Provides the knowledge, skills and judgment to deliver pre-hospital emergency care in a professional manner
Has a strong focus on paramedic-specific clinical practice but includes broader studies in the health sciences relevant to healthcare delivery
Conforms to the Australian Resuscitation Council Guidelines as they relate to advanced life support and other specific emergencies
Did you know:
Paramedics have the authority to use doctor-only medications and interventions to their patients in the out of hospital setting.
With your registration as a paramedic you can work across Australia and New Zealand.
A degree in paramedicine in Australia makes you highly valued by the ambulance services internationally; you could easily travel the world as a paramedic.
Many of our graduates enter their medicine programs with the advanced knowledge and skill base to be successful as future doctors.
The average paramedic gross income is over $110k, and the advanced paramedic salary is over $150k*
*labourmarketinsights.gov.au
See all events
Events
Your career
This program will equip you to apply for employment with a range of domestic and international organisations including South Australian Ambulance Service, Ambulance Victoria, St John Ambulance Australia, UK National Health Service Trust ambulance services (London Ambulance Service, Yorkshire Ambulance Service, South Central Ambulance Service, North East Ambulance Service, South East Coast Ambulance Service).
Potential occupations include:
paramedic intern
graduate paramedic
communications officer
emergency services/rescue officer
mine site paramedic
industrial paramedic.
Professional accreditation/recognition
This course is accredited by the Paramedicine Board of Australia, in accordance with the 2020 accreditation standards for paramedicine as stipulated by the Health Practitioner Regulation National Law, for registration as a paramedic in Australia.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
strategies to obtain, value and use information relevant to patients
study of normal human anatomy and physiology
principles of medical and trauma-related paramedic practice
familiarisation with the paramedic environment and equipment
fundamental skills and basic life support procedures
Second year
A typical second year may include:
study of human pathophysiology or abnormal function of body systems
exposure to more advanced concepts and skills in paramedic practice to prepare you to make complex patient-related decisions
clinical emergency placements
learning advanced life support procedures and how to manage common medical and traumatic emergencies
Third year
A typical third year may include:
continued development of clinical skills and decision making capability
clinical emergency placements
integration of broader concepts of health care into paramedic practice
specialist topics covering paediatrics, obstetrics, geriatrics and pharmacology
an intensive final semester topic in applied paramedic practice
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Perform shifts with patient transport services, emergency support services and an emergency operations centre in first year.
Perform approximately 300 hours of emergency ambulance placements with SA Ambulance Service in the second and third years to consolidate your clinical and theoretical understanding in real-life situations.
What you will need
To complete clinical placements you must:
be cleared as medically and physically fit by a medical practitioner
complete a manual handling training program
apply for a Department of Communities and Social Inclusion screen at the beginning of semester one
complete all SA Health mandated immunisations against infectious diseases.
View inherent requirements for Paramedicine courses
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.90
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
93.55
96.97
Lowest rank to receive an offer
80.25
83.75
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
111
47%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
10
4%
Work and life experience
6
3%
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
99
42%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
7
3%
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
<5
<5
International Students
<5
<5
All students
238
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
244971 (Bedford Park)
Rural and remote sub-quotas
An annual subquota is available for applicants from rural and remote areas. To be considered for the rural and remote subquota applicants must apply to SATAC in the normal way.
Applicants must also, within 10 working days after submitting the SATAC application, submit a Statutory Declaration to SATAC which confirms that they have lived in non-metropolitan areas of Australia (Remoteness Classifications RA2 to RA5) for at least 5 consecutive years, or 10 years cumulatively, from birth (i.e. during any period of their life). A Statutory Declaration form can be
downloaded here
(PDF 95KB).
Applicants can check their eligibility in accordance with the definition above using
the search tool
at the Remoteness Area (RA) Locator site. Filter your search using the ASGS Remoteness Areas (2016) layer.
Am I eligible?
Higher education sub-quota
Applicants will be eligible for consideration if:
they have completed a minimum of 18 units of study in either the Bachelor of Health Sciences, Bachelor of Nursing (Pre-registration) or the Bachelor of Medical Science at Flinders University, and
they have applied through SATAC for admission to the course
At least 80% of offers (in the higher education subquota) will be made to the highest ranked applicants from the specified degrees. Up to 20% of the remaining offers will be made to higher education applicants from other Flinders courses or any other higher education institution.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Health Sciences
Bachelor of Medical Science
Bachelor of Nursing (Pre-registration)
Diploma in Health Sciences
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 24 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS