Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-criminology-honours


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Criminology (Honours)
Study Criminology at Flinders
Explore the world of crime.
Gain a broad understanding of criminological theory and its applications in criminal justice contexts. You will have the opportunity to learn from world-class researchers in such areas as transnational crime, policing and security, organised crime, cybercrime, terrorism, corrections and corruption. Learn to apply your knowledge and skills in professional settings and to succeed within this growing field.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
90.00
Guaranteed selection rank
95.00
TAFElink
Advanced Diploma or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
234941 (Bedford Park) 284251 (City)
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Online: No
Duration
4 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $16,320
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
096843G
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Duration
4 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $33,900
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
234941 (Bedford Park)
284251 (City)
Why undertake an Honours year in
Criminology at Flinders?
Work with internationally recognized experts in criminology
Access excellent research facilities
Develop transferable analytical, collaborative, communication and presentation skills
Establish relationships with scholars, and partners in government and industry
Help address urgent social questions relating to global, national and local crime issues
Undertake a newly-expanded Industry Project topic, where you will work to solve a real-world problem
Complete an Industry-Sponsored Honours project that will have a real impact on how the justice system responds to crime
Your career
Flinders Criminology graduates have 
enjoyed wide choice of careers and diverse employment trajectories in 
Australia and overseas. Many, for example, move into employment within 
the wide range of operational services associated with criminal justice 
system.
Others work across 
various support and welfare services that are crucial to 
positive justice outcomes for offenders, victims and other vested 
interests. Elsewhere, Flinders Criminology graduates have applied their 
knowledge and skills across a range of research, policy-making, teaching
 and training outlets - obtaining employment through governments, 
universities and in other educational contexts.
Potential occupations include:
assistant advocacy officer
youth justice case manager
community corrections officer
investigation support officer.
Potential career pathways include:
research and/or teaching
public policy development (local, state, federal)
the criminal justice system – eg police, regulatory or intelligence services (state or federal), corrections, and court administration
rehabilitation, counselling-related or welfare services, child safety and social work
private security.
See all events
Events
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
foundational topics in criminology introducing areas such as crime and criminology, the criminal justice system, and law in Australian society
a choice of topics in psychology, political science, and sociology.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
enhanced topics building on first year that explore theory, research and contemporary criminological issues pertaining to criminal law, policing and society, punishment, and research methods
the choice from a wide range of option topics that reflect your interests in this diverse field, including forensic science, violent crime, crimes against populations, and terrorism
a choice in psychology, gender and Australian studies.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
exposure to advanced topics where you will apply your knowledge of criminology theory and advanced research methods and analysis
a choice of innovative and topical option topics providing enhanced understanding of areas such as criminal networks, corporate crime, international criminal justice, the Italian mafia, borders, migration and security, and miscarriages of justice, among others.
Honours year
A typical honours year may include:
honours-level topics in advanced theory and research application, and applied research methods
an honours thesis comprising an independent research project supervised by one of our academic researchers
field research through our work placement program.
View study program
View study program (City)
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Develop research and analytical skills.
Study practical topics to equip you for employment in intelligence analysis, community corrections, community development, and child safety work.
Undertake our work placement program during honours and receive on-the-job training in an area of interest with one of our diverse partners and providers (eg. state and federal government agencies, and the private and not-for-profit sectors).
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas with a student exchange program.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
96.80
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
70.30
76.75
Lowest rank to receive an offer
58.35
66.20
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
21
22%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
0
0
Work and life experience
N/P
N/P
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
41
42%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
8
8%
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
18
19%
International Students
<5
<5
All students
97
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree
Expand your career options by combining this degree with the:
Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science
Bachelor of Law and Society
Bachelor of Psychological Science
Search all combined degree options
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
234941 (Bedford Park)
284251 (City)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, another Flinders degree you might want to include in your list is the
Bachelor of Law and Society
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS