Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-engineering-environmental-honours


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Engineering (Environmental) (Honours)
Study Environmental Engineering at Flinders
Engineer the environment for a sustainable world.
Environmental engineering is where advances in science and technology are transformed into practical solutions that will protect and improve the quality of our environment. Environmental engineers are problem-solvers who design solutions to a range of hazards from airborne and waterborne diseases, water and air pollution, wastewater management and recycling. They implement environmental engineering law and assess the environmental impact of proposed projects.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
SACE stage two specialist mathematics or mathematical methods or equivalent.
Assumed knowledge
Knowledge of SACE stage two physics or equivalent is assumed.
2024 selection rank
75.00
Guaranteed selection rank
80.00
TAFElink
Diploma or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
244401
Delivery mode
In person:
– Tonsley
Online: No
Duration
4 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $8,948
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
SACE stage two specialist mathematics or mathematical methods or equivalent.
Assumed knowledge
Knowledge of SACE stage two physics or equivalent is assumed.
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
102907H
Delivery mode
In person:
– Tonsley
Duration
4 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $45,000
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
244401 (Tonsley)
Why study Environmental Engineering at Flinders
Integrates with Flinders world-class research in environmental science and engineering
Our nationally recognised integrated work placement gives you practical industry experience
You will develop both the practical skills and theoretical knowledge needed to design and build engineering solutions to environmental problems
The course provides opportunities for interdisciplinary learning with other students from different engineering disciplines
World-class facilities in the new technology precinct at Tonsley.
Your career
With the problems faced by the environment becoming more critical, environmental engineers are in very high demand.  Opportunities exist across a wide range of organisations and government, from mining and resources through to local, state and federal government.
Potential occupations include:·
Water supply and wastewater treatment engineer
Environmental health engineer
Air pollution management engineer
Environmental impact assessor
Potential employers include:
Building and construction companies
Government and universities
Manufacturing industry
Mining and resources industry
Professional recognition/accreditation
All our Bachelor of Engineering and Master of Engineering degrees are accredited by Engineers Australia at the level of professional engineer. Professional engineering courses accredited by Engineers Australia are recognised internationally under the Washington Accord. Graduates meet the academic requirements for attaining chartered professional engineering status.
See all events
Events
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
study with student engineers of all disciplines and core topics in environmental science, engineering design, professional skills, engineering programming, engineering physics and materials, engineering mechanics, and mathematics
commonality in the first year that means you can transfer between engineering disciplines easily at the end of the year.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
core topics in environmental engineering, waste management, fluid mechanics, hydrology, mechanics and structures, geology and geomechanics, engineering mathematics,  geospatial information systems.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
topics in sustainable engineering, water engineering, environmental impact assessment, engineering project management together with study that examines how to work as a professional engineer
a 20-week industry placement.
Honours year
A typical honours year may include:
a major environmental engineering honours thesis allowing high-performing students to progress to a higher degree by research
an advanced infrastructure design topic in geotechnical and water engineering
a capstone topic in advanced environmental engineering design
further studies exploring practicing as a professional engineer
a selection of electives in allied science and engineering areas.
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience, helping you graduate work-ready.
You'll have the opportunity to undertake a 20-week industry placement as part of your degree. One of the longest work placements offered in Australia, it enables you to work alongside professional engineers tackling real-world problems.
Gain hands-on exposure to the cutting-edge equipment and facilities of Flinders University’s new technology precinct at Tonsley.
Undertake an integrated high-technology design consulting project, putting what you learn into practice.
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take some of your studies overseas with a student exchange program and you can undertake your industry placement overseas.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.75
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
81.38
86.88
Lowest rank to receive an offer
61.40
70.40
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
57
32%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
0
0
Work and life experience
5
3%
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
80
45%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
11
6%
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
14
8%
International Students
11
6%
All students
178
100%
Get a double degree by combining environmental engineering and environmental science
With the problems faced by the environment becoming more critical, environmental scientists and engineers are in very high demand. Flinders University offers a unique double degree that combines environmental engineering with environmental science. You’ll graduate with two separate degrees, a greater career prospects and a competitive edge in the job market.
Bachelor of Engineering (Environmental) (Honours) / Bachelor of Science (Environmental Science)
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree.
You can combine this degree with any other bachelor degree within the College of Science and Engineering, subject to meeting entry requirements.
Search all combined degree options
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
244401 (Tonsley)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, another Flinders degree you might want to include in your list is the
Bachelor of Engineering Science
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 24 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS