Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-languages


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Languages
Study Languages at Flinders
Choose from beginner to advanced study across 8 languages.
As the largest tertiary language provider in South Australia, Flinders offers the opportunity to study French, Indonesian, Italian, Modern Greek, and Spanish. Additionally, through our cross-institutional partnerships, you can also pursue studies in Chinese, German, and Japanese.
Through student-centred learning, small class sizes and educated by native speakers, you'll become part of the Flinders Language community and be guided to tailor your learning experience to your unique career goals. With international exchange opportunities, you will receive a solid foundation for understanding, learning and using languages, and combine your language proficiency with the cross-cultural knowledge and skills that are invaluable in international workplaces.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
70.00
Guaranteed selection rank
75.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
214921
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $5,600
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
069017K
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $33,800
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
214921 (Bedford Park)
Why study Languages at Flinders
Choose from a broad range of languages, including: French, Indonesian, Italian, Modern Greek, Spanish or Chinese, Japanese or German cross-institutionally.
Study one language, or combine two languages
Take your study abroad with international exchange opportunities
Tailor your study program to meet your unique career goals
Become part of the Flinders languages community and meet like-minded people
Develop the confidence, open-mindedness and cultural understanding careers with an international focus
High-achieving secondary students have the opportunity to study a Language at Flinders as part of the Extension Studies Program. The program provides a taste of university life for high-achieving South Australian senior secondary school students while also giving the opportunity to complement and extend their SACE or International Baccalaureate studies.
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree
Expand your career options by combining this degree with one of the following:
Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science
Bachelor of Tourism and Events Management
Search all combined degree options
Your career
With the internationalisation of the job market, graduates with a qualification in a foreign language will have greater employment opportunities both in Australia and overseas. Potential areas of employment include tourism agencies, foreign language teaching, international trade, finance and commerce, diplomatic and defence agencies, translating services, and international development.
Potential occupations include:
international trade officer
translator and interpreter
settlement support officer
international student adviser
foreign language intelligence analyst.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
introductory learning through an extended major sequence of your target language
core topics including strategies for language learning
elective topics offered in the Bachelor of Arts
a major sequence or a minor sequence with a choice of topics that relate to language and/or culture.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
intermediate learning through an extended or major sequence of your target language
a Bachelor of Languages option topic
a major sequence or a minor sequence with a choice of topics that relate to language and/or culture.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
intermediate to advanced learning through an extended major sequence of your target language
a Bachelor of Languages option topic
a major sequence or a minor sequence with a choice of topics that relate to language and/or culture.
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce. Put your language into action via placements in organisations such as film festivals, care facilities, ethnic radio stations and other community organisations.
Study abroad
It doesn’t get more authentic than studying languages abroad. Flinders has a series of international exchange links that give you the chance to study part of your degree overseas. Gain another perspective, gather experience and immerse yourself in the culture of another country.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
96.45
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
78.70
83.75
Lowest rank to receive an offer
59.50
64.90
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
9
47%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
<5
<5
International Students
<5
<5
All students
19
100%
"As part of this degree, I have had opportunities both in-country and overseas to enrich my learning experience.
In my 2nd year, I completed a 6-month internship with the Spanish Embassy of Education, where I helped devise a database to better understand how Spanish is taught in schools. Then in my 3rd year, I travelled to Argentina on a semester exchange at Universidad de Belgrano in Buenos Aires. There, I took classes in Spanish on Argentinian Literature, Human Rights, Tango, Language, and even Portuguese with local students. Finally, I was also able to participate in an NCP-funded program to New Caledonia, where I studied the French language for two weeks through the lens of the Kanak culture."
Alexandra Reinhardt, Bachelor of Languages (French and Spanish)
"I found that the teaching staff are willing to go above and beyond to help students maximize their potential.
As most of our classes were small, our lecturers could easily identify any struggles that we were having and focus on these for our understanding. Plus, with the founding of the Flinders Languages Club, it’s now easier than ever to find a group of friendly people who are always happy to practice speaking with you."
Cody Tonkin, Bachelor of Languages (Spanish and Applied Linguistics)
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
214921 (Bedford Park)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Arts
Diploma in Arts
Diploma in Language
Undergraduate Certificate in French
Undergraduate Certificate in Spanish
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic pathway programs
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 09 Oct 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS