Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-business


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Business
Study Business at Flinders
Make your mark in business
Combine practical learning based on solving real-world business problems with the skills to analyse and understand key issues that businesses deal with every day. This degree provides you with the fundamental knowledge, contemporary case studies, workplace skills development and live industry experience to pursue a career in business. A
Bachelor of Business (Online)
is also available.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
60.00
Guaranteed selection rank
65.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
214761 (Bedford Park) 284071 (City)
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Online: No
                                                                
																
																	Refer to the
online option here
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $16,320
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
058294B
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $36,500
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
214761 (Bedford Park)
284071 (City)
Why study Business at Flinders
Develop strong practical and operational business skills
Get real-world work experience and build networks through work placements and live industry projects
Succeed in your studies with free mentoring and specialised tutor programs
Develop valuable work-ready skills through innovative peer review assessment activities
Enjoy greater flexibility by studying your degree online
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree
Expand your career options by combining this degree with one of the following:
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Accounting
Bachelor of Finance
Bachelor of Information Technology
Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science
Bachelor of Laws and Legal Practice
Bachelor of Laws and Legal Practice (Honours)
Bachelor of Tourism and Event Management
Search all combined degree options
Your career
Our business graduates work throughout the world with the range of opportunities continually expanding. Many of our graduates have gone on to reach very senior positions in both the private and public sectors internationally.
Potential occupations include:
industry analyst
client service executive
human resource associate
marketing manager
graduate commercial analyst.
Potential employers include:
private sector businesses
government
not-for-profit organisations.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
core topics in accounting for managers; quantitative methods; management, people and organisations; economics; law; and marketing principles
a selection of additional business topics and electives from across the University.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
further core topics
a selection of additional business topics and electives from across the University.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
further core topics
a selection of additional business topics and electives from across the University.
View study program
View study program (City)
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Participate in an interactive peer review assessment that enables you to collaborate with your peers by applying different theoretical approaches to a broad range of Australian businesses.
Participate in Work-Integrated Learning and industry placement programs.
Immerse yourself in live industry projects with the New Venture Institute and engage with business in a real-world environment.
Study abroad
Flinders has a series of international exchange links that give you a chance to study part of your degree overseas, from a short-term three-week study tour to a yearlong exchange at any one of 80 partner universities around the world.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
78.8
83.8
Median rank to receive an offer
69.1
73.9
Lowest rank to receive an offer
57.6
62.85
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
9
18%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
21
42%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
6
12%
International Students
8
16%
All students
50
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
214761 (Bedford Park)
284071 (City)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Commerce
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 24 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS