Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-archaeology


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Archaeology
Study Archaeology at Flinders
Your future lies in the past.
Delve into the world's rich cultural history, uncovering the links between past, present and future societies.
Get your hands dirty, digging up secrets of the past with the only Bachelor of Archaeology degree in South Australia.  Unearth and analyse artefacts with a degree that prepares you for a wide range of jobs in museums, government, community organisations and the cultural heritage management industry.
You'll be prepared for an immersive career, choosing to specialise your studies in archaeological science, ancient civilisations, maritime archaeology, historical archaeology or Indigenous archaeology.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
70.00
Guaranteed selection rank
65.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
214021
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $15,200
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
024778G
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $33,800
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
214021 (Bedford Park)
Why study Archaeology at Flinders
South Australia's only dedicated Archaeology degree
Strong area of employment, with many student's gaining employment before they graduate
Entry level Archaeologist positions in Australia usually start at $64,000 and most experienced workers earn upwards of $146,000 per year (2024 average pay by experience, payscale.com).
Gain hands-on experience through dedicated field schools
Specialist topics and teaching staff across a range of fields including: Indigenous Archaeology, Heritage Management, Maritime Archaeology and Ancient Civilisations
You'll benefit from our strong connections to industry and our well-respected reputation amongst the archaeological community
Hands-on degree focussed on building your skills in the area of your interest
Strong research staff and well-recognised by research bodies
At Flinders we teach post-colonialism views in Archaeology
Choose to specialise across a range of areas in your Honours year.
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree
Expand your career options by combining this degree with one of the following:
Bachelor of Geospatial Information Systems
Bachelor of Science (Biodiversity and Conservation)
Bachelor of Science (Environmental Science)
Bachelor of Science (Forensic and Analytical Science)
Bachelor of Science (Marine Biology)
Bachelor of Science (Palaeontology)
Search all combined degree options
Your career
This course prepares you for a professional career in archaeology or related areas, making you suitable for jobs throughout the globe in research, policy development, consulting, laboratory research, hands-on surveying and excavation.
Potential occupations include:
archaeologist
museum curator
cultural heritage officer
cultural ranger
education and interpretation officer
forensic archaeologist
author or content writer about archaeology
digital archaeologist
researcher.
Potential employers include:
Cultural heritage consulting companies
Mining and energy companies
Indigenous-run organisations or corporations
Museum sector (local, state/territory, national)
Government departments dealing with cultural heritage
National and state-run parks
Conservation organisations such as the National Trust
Universities.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
core topics such as world archaeology, cultural anthropology and ancient rituals
topics in communication, numeracy and innovative thinking
a selection of electives from related disciplines.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
core topics such as field methods, first Australians, modern society and human evolution
an archaeology option topic
a selection of electives from related disciplines.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
advanced archaeology core topics such as the history of archaeological thought and environmental archaeology
a selection of archaeology option topics
a selection of electives from related disciplines.
Honours year
A typical honours year may include:
a research project tailored to your interests
preparation for further study in a masters degree or PhD.
View study program
Practical experience
Undertake laboratory and practical sessions that will give you experience in archaeological data analysis and interpretation.
Credit volunteer experience in archaeology towards your degree through an archaeology in the field topic.
Learn archaeological field methods.
Undertake practical and laboratory sessions in our new state-of-the-art facilities.
Take opportunities for volunteer experience in field and laboratory work.
Get your hands dirty digging up secrets of the past.
Explore your career in Archaeology.
Learn more
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
90.50
92.70
Median rank to receive an offer
69.65
76.90
Lowest rank to receive an offer
59.25
63.90
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
12
33%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
6
17%
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
12
33%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
<5
<5
International Students
0
0
All students
36
100%
Study abroad
A series of international exchange links are available in the USA or UK for one to two semesters of study. Gain another perspective, gather experience and immerse yourself in the culture of another country. It’ll be fundamental for your career and it will look great on your résumé too.
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
214021 (Bedford Park)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Applied Geographical Information Systems
Bachelor of Science
Bachelor of Science (Environmental Science)
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 14 Aug 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS