Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-sport-active-recreation


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Sport and Active Recreation
Study Sport and Active Recreation at Flinders
Kickstart your active career and never truly work a day in your life.
The Bachelor of Sport and Active Recreation equips you with the necessary skills to apply yourself as a professional in a range of sport and active recreation careers. You'll develop an understanding of the impact of sport and physical activity in the context of a healthy lifestyle and gain a strong knowledge base in areas including sport coaching, sport development and active communities.
The versatile program of study allows students to choose a major in Applied Sports Science, Outdoor Education, Sports Business and Active & Healthy Communities. Pursue one of these majors to explore an area of specialised interest and focus your future career, or choose your own adventure and discover areas you're particularly passionate about as you study.
Please note the Outdoor Education major is not available for study in Festival Plaza in 2024. Please apply for the Bachelor of Sport and Active Recreation (Bedford Park) (245021) if you wish to study Outdoor Education.
This course is new in 2024 and has replaced the Bachelor of Sport, Health and Physical Activity.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
Minimum selection rank
65.00
Guaranteed selection rank
70.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
245021 (Bedford Park) 284681 (City)
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Annual indicative fee
2024: $11,874
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
113275M
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Duration
3 years full-time
Annual fee
2025: $34,000
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
245021 (Bedford Park)
284681 (City)
*Some specialisations not available in the City.
*Some specialisations not available in the City.
Why study Sport and Active Recreation at Flinders
Introduces you to the diversity across fields of sport and physical activity
Align your study with a career path by choosing from one of our four new majors: Applied Sports Science, Outdoor Education, Active & Healthy Communities, or Sports Business
Combine the study of sport and active recreation with other areas including Psychological Science and Business
Gain an understanding of the significance of sport and active recreation for a healthy lifestyle and healthy communities.
Develop contacts and networks with local and national sporting clubs, associations, government, and active recreation organisation.
Pictured:
Velvet – Graduate, Bachelor of Sport, Health and Physical Activity (Honours)
Strength and Conditioning Coach, Player Performance Project
Menstrual Health Educator, Fuel & Flow
PhD Candidate (Sports & Exercise)
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree
Bachelor of Sport and Active Recreation/Bachelor of Business (Management)
By combining management with your sport studies, your study program will cover areas such as organisational behaviour, management, people and organisations, human resource management, strategic management, and an industry placement.
Bachelor of Sport and Active Recreation/Bachelor of Psychological Sciences
By combining psychological science with your sport studies, your study program will cover areas such as human development, cognition and learning, psychological assessment and measurement, clinical psychology, lifespan development, advanced social psychology, and applications of psychological science.
Search all combined degree options
Your career
The Bachelor of Sport and Active Recreation will prepare graduates for a career in the sport development, sport coaching, active recreation, and sport industries, and may provide a pathway to further studies in physical education teaching through the Master of Teaching courses.
Potential occupations include:
association and clubs development officer
community sport and recreation officer
strength and conditioning coach
sport performance analyst
council sport and recreation officer
outdoor recreation guide
outdoor leader or educator
sport coach
sport manager
sports marketer
sport development officer
sports and recreation entrepreneur
Professional accreditation/recognition
Students successfully completing two option topics from the Applied Sport Science topics are eligible for Australian Strength and Conditioning Association level one accreditation.
See all events
Events
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
an introduction to sport and physical activity, and sport in society, including the current industry landscape
an introduction to health education and Indigenous health for health science
studies in the fundamentals of coaching
Second year
A typical second year may include:
studies in sports psychology and exercise physiology for physical educators
majors topics in areas of business, sports science, outdoor education and active and healthy communities
Third year
A typical third year may include:
an industry placement field project
study in applied exercise science, sport coaching, management and administration
study in project management for health promotion and skill acquisition for physical educators
majors topics in areas of business, sports science, outdoor education and active and healthy communities
View study program
View study program (City)
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Explore local, national and international placement possibilities in a range of areas such as sport coaching, sport management, school sports and sport business administration.
Take advantage of opportunities to make links with industry professionals from the first year of the degree.
Undertake a compulsory industry project in third year in an area of your career interest.
What you will need
Students must obtain a National DCSI Screening and Play by the Rules Certificate (free online course) in order to participate in placements.
Study abroad
There are opportunities to undertake a range of sport development projects in international locations such as Vanuatu, Fiji or London.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
88.65
95.90
Median rank to receive an offer
70.17
77.15
Lowest rank to receive an offer
55.65
65.00
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
10
31%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
8
25%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
8
25%
International Students
<5
<5
All students
32
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
245021 (Bedford Park)
284681 (City)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, some other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of General Studies
Bachelor of Education (Secondary)/ Bachelor of Health Sciences
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 30 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS