Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/honours-bachelor-information-technology


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Information Technology (Honours) 1 year
Undertake an Honours year in Information Technology
A future in IT is what YOU make of it.
Information technology intersects with almost every facet of our lives and a career in IT can lead you in many exciting directions. During an Honours year in Information Technology you will expand your knowledge as you will work on complex and challenging real-world problems.
Tailor your studies based on your own interests and pick from a wide range of IT topics or across disciplines as you work on an independent research project under the guidance of a research mentor. Your Honours year will prepare you for a career in research or provide you with in-demand advanced skills to become a leader of IT across many industries.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

Why undertake an Honours year in Information Technology at Flinders
Develop advanced skills in the design and implementation of complex software and hardware systems
Design and manage a comprehensive research project
Develop independent research and enhance your analysis and problem-solving skills
Work collaboratively across disciplines
Follow your passions and explore a specialised project
Your career
Set yourself apart and show future employers your ambition and initiative with an Honours degree. You will develop specialised knowledge of information technology and have advanced demonstrable skills in critical thinking, communication, problem solving and project management to help get you ready for the workforce. An Honours year help you pursue a career in the industry or continue to further research.
Potential occupations include:
information technology researcher
software engineer
web developer
data scientist
software tester
systems engineer
business analyst
network security specialist
project manager
Potential employers include:
IT specialists are in demand across all industries and sectors both locally and across the globe
universities
government
education
health
security and law enforcement
defence
business and finance
entertainment industries
Professional recognition and accreditation
All our Bachelor of Information Technology and Bachelor of Computer Science degrees are accredited by the Australian Computer Society at the professional level.  Professional ICT courses accredited by the Australian Computer Society are recognised internationally under the Seoul Accord. Graduates meet the academic requirements for attaining chartered status as ICT professionals.
Your path toward a higher degree by research
Studying Honours will provide a solid grounding in research skills and enhanced knowledge to help you progress towards a higher degree by research. Use skills you will acquire in research, critical analysis and innovative problem solving and be a part of new discoveries that will shape our world.
Find out more
Your path toward a higher degree by research
Studying Honours will provide a solid grounding in research skills and enhanced knowledge to help you progress towards a higher degree by research. Use skills you will acquire in research, critical analysis and innovative problem solving and be a part of new discoveries that will shape our world.
Find out more
What you will study
During your Honours year, you will complete an independent research project with the support of a mentor. The project is completed over five topics (one-year full time or part-time equivalent). As well as the research project topics, you will also complete a research methods topic and two advanced topics across a range of research focused areas within information technology.
View study program
Entry requirements
Entry into one-year Honours is highly competitive. If you have demonstrated academic excellence (a Grade Point Average of 5.00 or above) during your bachelor degree you are invited to apply for Honours.
Whether you’re invited to apply, or want to apply, you will need to contact the Honours coordinator in your discipline to discuss your project and arrange for supervision.
Search for an Honours coordinator
Apply
When to apply
Applications for 2025 are now open.
How to apply
Submit your application directly to Flinders University through the online application system.
If you have never studied at or made an application to Flinders University
, you can register and submit your application for admission to a 1-year Honours course using the
eApplication portal
. You will receive two emails once your application is completed: confirmation of application submission; and a second email with your student ID. Note, it may take 1-4 hours for your student ID to be created.
If you have studied at Flinders University within the last 12 months
you can submit your application for admission to a one-year Honours course via the
Student System
. You can apply for admission by selecting the
My Applications
tab at the top of the page, and searching for your course.
If you studied at Flinders University more than 12 months ago
you will need to
reactivate your FAN
first. With an active FAN you will then be able to submit your application for admission via the
Student System
as advised above.
Enquire
For all course enquiries phone, email or complete the enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Enquire
If you have a question about how to apply, please review our
Frequently Asked Questions
before submitting an enquiry.
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS