Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-science-forensic-analytical-science


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Science (Forensic and Analytical Science)
Study Forensic and Analytical Science at Flinders
Use chemistry and biology to analyse evidence, help investigate crime and contribute to justice.
Undertake one of two streams. Forensic and analytical chemistry combines the practices of analytical chemistry and forensic investigation. Forensic biology uses aspects of life sciences to examine biological material in a forensic context. The degree weaves core analytical skills with the principles, knowledge and practices of forensic biology and forensic chemistry.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
SACE stage two chemistry or equivalent.
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
70.00
Guaranteed selection rank
75.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
234281
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $9,100
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
SACE stage two chemistry or equivalent.
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
023581F
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $41,400
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
234281 (Bedford Park)
Why study Forensic and Analytical Science at Flinders
Choose a stream in forensic and analytical chemistry or forensic biology
Get hands-on experience during laboratory practicals and learn how forensic technologies are applied to real-life cases
Opens career options in areas such as illicit drug testing, DNA analysis, trace evidence examination and toxicology
Analyse and identify evidence such as illicit drugs, human body fluids, and trace evidence such as textile fibres and glass
Strong links with Forensic Science South Australia and other agencies and researchers around the world
Access research facilities among Australia’s best
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree
Bachelor of Archaeology
Bachelor of Laws and Legal Practice
Bachelor of Laws and Legal Practice (Honours)
.
Search all combined degree options
Your career
Forensic and analytical science opens career options in areas such as illicit drug testing, DNA analysis, trace evidence examination and toxicology.
Potential occupations include:
forensic chemist, forensic biologist or forensic
toxicologist
analytical chemist
forensic technical assistant
formulation chemist
graduate chemist.
Potential employer sectors include:
forensic agencies, analytical laboratories
government agencies
chemical, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, environmental laboratoriess.
Potential employers include:
Forensic Science SA
Australian Federal Police
Defence Science and Technology Group
Victorian Institute of Forensic Medicine
See all events
Events
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
core topics in the evolution of biological diversity, the molecular basis of life, chemical structure and bonding, modern chemistry, introduction to forensic science, and the nature of science
a topic in biostatistics or data science
an elective topic.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
core topics in molecular biology, spectroscopy and data analysis, separation science, and chemical criminalistics
topics in forensic and analytical chemistry, or forensic biology
a selection of elective topics.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
core topics in biological criminalistics; applied spectroscopy and electrochemistry; and drug action, metabolism, toxicology and analysis
topics in forensic and analytical chemistry, or forensic biology
a selection of elective topics.
Honours year
A typical honours year may include:
a major forensic and analytical science research thesis, which develops core research skills enabling students to progress to a higher degree by research and increases the scope of their options in the job market
further development of professional forensic skills such as evaluation and presentation of expert evidence in court.
View study program
Practical experiences
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Get hands-on experience in our laboratories.
Undertake research in the field.
Carry out honours research with an industry partner such as Forensic Science SA, South Australian Police or the Defence Science Technology Group.
Get hands-on experience in our laboratories, and undertake research in the field. There are opportunities to carry out honours research with an industry partner such as Forensic Science SA, South Australian Police or the Defence Science Technology Group.
What you will need
Compulsory topics in laboratories include practical exercises that require manual dexterity.
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas with a student exchange program.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.70
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
79.85
83.78
Lowest rank to receive an offer
62.10
70.05
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
26
21%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
11
9%
Work and life experience
7
6%
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
46
37%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
30
24%
International Students
N/P
N/P
All students
126
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
234281 (Bedford Park)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Applicants without the SACE stage two chemistry or equivalent prerequisite may wish to complete the
Bachelor of Science (Forensic and Analytical Science Pathway)
to meet this requirement.
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, another Flinders degree you might want to include in your list is the:
Bachelor of Science
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS