Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-health-sciences-master-physiotherapy


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Health Sciences / Master of Physiotherapy
Study Physiotherapy at Flinders
Maximise movement in people of all ages.
Develop the knowledge and skills required to become registered and work as a physiotherapist. The degree builds on Flinders University’s strengths in rural health and health service improvement, and prepares you for a career as a contemporary health professional able to work across a variety of settings.
Alternatively, learn more about
studying Physiotherapy in Port Pirie, Renmark, or Mt Gambier.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
Knowledge of SACE stage two biology and physics or equivalent is assumed.
2024 selection rank
85.00
Guaranteed selection rank
N/A
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
224081 (Bedford Park)
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
5 years full-time
Annual indicative fee
2024: $10,500
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
Knowledge of SACE stage two biology and physics or equivalent is assumed.
IELTS
overall
7.0
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Reading
6.5
Pearson
overall
65
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
0100688
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
5 years full-time
Annual fee
2025: $44,500
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
224081 (Bedford Park)
Why study Physiotherapy at Flinders
Develop skills and expertise preparing you for professional practice in physiotherapy
Small class sizes and one-on-one tuition with supportive staff
Provides 26 weeks of clinical placements
Role-play with actors to simulate clinical experience
Sub-quotas available for rural and remote applicants, and Year 12 and higher education applicants
Your career
Potential occupations include:
physiotherapist
neurological physiotherapist
injury management consultant
sport physiotherapist
musculoskeletal physiotherapist.
Potential employers include:
hospitals
community health centres
aged care facilities
mental health services
rehabilitation centres
sports clinics and fitness centres.
Professional accreditation / recognition
The Master of Physiotherapy component of this course is accredited by the Australian Physiotherapy Council and satisfies the academic requirements for registration as a physiotherapist with the Physiotherapy Board of Australia.
See all events
Events
Physiotherapy:
Maximise movement for quality of life
Physiotherapists help people to move well, stay well and live full lives.
Careers in Physiotherapy
Get inspired
Occupational Therapy & Physiotherapy at Flinders
Physiotherapy at Flinders
Gain industry experience at Flinders
EXPLORE
OTHER CAREERS
IN HEALTH
There are amazing careers in health all over the world for you to discover.
Uncover your passion
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
core topics in legal and ethical aspects of health care, human bioscience, health promotion for health professionals, communication and interprofessional practice, health practitioner practice, introduction to physiotherapy, Indigenous health, and exercise and musculoskeletal physiology.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
core topics in introduction to principles of learning and biomechanics, critical social analysis of health, Indigenous health for health sciences, a psychological perspective of health, body systems, neuroscience for therapists, and rehabilitation studies.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
core topics in behavioural change, telehealth, qualitative and quantitative methods of social health research; human musculoskeletal anatomy; introduction to the science of physiotherapy; pain, posture and movement; and rehabilitation studies.
Fourth and fifth year
A typical fourth and fifth year may include:
core topics in performance of movement and function, design and ethics in research with vulnerable populations, neurological rehabilitation, health promotion, and chronic disease management
study of musculoskeletal practice, cardiorespiratory practice, interprofessional practice, physiotherapy clinical practice, complex case and advanced practice, health promotion and leadership and research in clinical practice
a series of clinical practicums.
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Undertake clinical learning at Health2GO, an interprofessional student clinic located on campus at the University.
Undertake 26 weeks of supervised clinical placements.
Complete at least one rural and/or remote placement.
Practical experience requirements
For information on pre-placement requirements, please
visit the placement compliance page.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.50
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
87.63
90.22
Lowest rank to receive an offer
73.60
82.55
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
11
18%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
16
27%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
22
37%
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
6
10
International Students
<5
<5
All students
60
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
224081 (Bedford Park)
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Rural and remote sub-quotas
An annual subquota is available for applicants from rural and remote areas. To be considered for the rural and remote subquota applicants must apply to SATAC in the normal way.
Applicants must also, within 10 working days after submitting the SATAC application, submit a Statutory Declaration to SATAC which confirms that they have lived in non-metropolitan areas of Australia (Remoteness Classifications RA2 to RA5) for at least 5 consecutive years, or 10 years cumulatively, from birth (i.e. during any period of their life). A Statutory Declaration form can be
downloaded here
(PDF 95KB).
Applicants can check their eligibility in accordance with the definition above using
the search tool
at the Remoteness Area (RA) Locator site. Filter your search using the ASGS Remoteness Areas (2016) layer.
Am I eligible?
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Health Sciences
Bachelor of Exercise Science
.
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic pathway programs
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 11 Oct 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS