Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-criminology-strategy-analysis


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Criminology (Strategy and Analysis)
Study Criminology (Strategy and Analysis) at Flinders
Learn how to increase your positive social impact and develop a strategic mindset to address existing and emerging challenges related to the criminal justice system.
Push the boundaries and see the criminal justice system through a courageous new lens.
With a focus on strategy and analysis, this Criminology specialisation provides a comprehensive understanding of crime and social harm, preparing you for careers in intelligence, research, and policy.
By undertaking a selection of topics from business, public policy and social work you will cultivate a strategic mindset that will allow you to recognise and act on opportunities.
Learn how to apply your knowledge and skills in a dynamic context, and future-proof your career in an ever-changing work landscape.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2025 selection rank
N/A
Guaranteed selection rank
70.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
245171 (Bedford Park) 284911 (City)
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2025: $19,922
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
5.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
092879E
Delivery mode
In person:
– City
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $33,900
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
245171 (Bedford Park)
284911 (City)
Why study Criminology (Strategy and Analysis) at Flinders
Learn from South Australia’s largest and most experienced Criminology team
Develop a strategic mindset that will set you apart in a fast-changing world
Intelligence and policy analyst jobs are set to grow by 20% in the ten years to May 2033 (Source: Jobs and Skills Australia 2024)
Complete an Industry Placement and connect with leaders: our powerful industry partnerships span government bodies, public and private organisations.
Your career
This degree will prepare you for a career addressing the challenges of the future in the criminal justice system and beyond, and provide a comprehensive understanding of crime and social harm, preparing you specifically for policy and research roles.
Potential occupations include:
Strategy and impact advisor
Senior policy officer
Program manager
Intelligence analyst
Cybercrime analyst
Ministerial advisor
Business analyst
Potential employers include:
Strategy and impact advisor
Senior policy officer
Program manager
Intelligence analyst
Cybercrime analyst
Ministerial advisor
Business analyst
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
Foundational topics in criminology, introducing areas such as criminal law, the criminal justice system, crime data, crime and criminology, and race and representation
Specialised topics in social work and public policy.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
Enhanced topics building on first year that explore policing, the social impacts of punishment, cybercrime and digital risk, and victims and trauma
Specialised topics in innovation for Australian public policy and specialist criminology research methods and data
Third year
A typical third year may include:
Exposure to advanced topics where you will apply your knowledge of criminology theory and advanced research methods and analysis
Specialised topics in strategic communications and inequality and the Australian welfare state
A choice of elective topics providing enhanced understanding of areas such as international criminal justice, current issues in criminal justice, drugs politics and public health, and others.
View study program
View study program (City)
Practical experience
Immerse yourself in Industry Placements with not for profits or government departments that address issues relating to criminology.
You will gain comprehensive experience with industry partners you work for. If undertaking a project, you will conduct research and develop strategic insights and recommendations for your client, which could have real-world impact.
Study abroad
Flinders has a series of international exchange links that give you a chance to study part of your degree overseas, from a short-term three-week study tour to a yearlong exchange at any one of 80 partner universities around the world.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The ATAR and Selection Rank profile shows data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR who commenced the course in the previous admission year. As this course is new there is currently no ATAR and Selection Rank data available.
Student Profile
The Student Profile gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in a particular course. It provides data on students who commenced the course in the previous admission year. As this course is new there is currently no Student Profile data available
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
245171 (Bedford Park)
284921 (City)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
After completing the one-year Flinders University Diploma in Criminology, applicants have guaranteed entry into second year of the Bachelor of Criminology.
Explore the Diploma in Criminology
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, another Flinders degree you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Criminology
Bachelor of Criminology (People and Community)
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 22 Oct 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS