Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-creative-industries-digital-media


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Creative Industries (Digital Media)
Study Creative Industries (Digital Media) at Flinders
Start your career as a digital media content creator.
Gain the skills you’ll need to pursue a career as a digital media content creator. You’ll be connected to industry from day one, with real-world work opportunities embedded into the degree. You’ll explore a broad range of creative topics, including post-production, digital visual effects, animation, gaming and interactive media. You’ll also have access to a wide range of electives from across the university, to help you find your unique path as a digital content creator.
Taught by leading, practising experts, with this hands-on degree you’ll graduate with a portfolio of real-word experience that will help you gain employment in a broad range of industries.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
60.00
Guaranteed selection rank
65.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
284191
Delivery mode
In person:
– City
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $13,800
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
102679D
Delivery mode
In person:
– City
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $33,800
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
284191 (City)
Why study Creative Industries (Digital Media) at Flinders
Artwork: Alexander Bradford
No.1 in SA in Creative Arts for learner engagement, skills development, student support and teaching quality
(The Good Universities Guide 2023 (undergraduate), public SA-founded universities only)
You’ll gain a broad skillset in the growing digital media industry, particularly in VFX, screen, production, project management, post-production and technical developments
You’ll have access to a wide range of electives from across the university, not limited to creative arts or creative industries
Study practice-based courses linked directly to industry skills
Taught by industry-leading teaching staff with global industry connections
You’ll collaborate with other students from across the university, not just from the Creative Arts and Industries, but in Science, Engineering, Health, and more
Non-portfolio entry degree
Build a world-class portfolio to gain employment in the industry or to be used for applications into another degree such as the Bachelor of Creative Arts (Visual Effects and Entertainment Design)
Gain the skills you need for a career as a digital media content creator
Work in state-of-the-art facilities, such as The Void, South Australia’s largest motion capture studio, exclusive to Flinders University
Work directly with industry on real-world projects. Work simulated learning is embedded into the curriculum.
Your career
This degree will open the doors to a range of career opportunities in games, entertainment and digital media, and the broader creative industries. You’ll graduate with portable skills and knowledge applicable to a wide range of roles.
Potential occupations include:
Production Coordinator
Production Artists
Visual Effects Artists
Compositor
Digital Content Producer
Digital Imaging technician
Virtual Production Specialist
Motion Capture Technician
3D Modeller
Potential employers include:
MPC
Rising Sun Pictures
Model Farm
Resin
Mini Mammoth Games
Warner Brothers
Defiant
Monkeystack
League of Geeks
Big Ant Studios
Mighty Kingdom
Ubisoft
Gameloft
Ready at Dawn
Deviation Games
“
I decided to study Digital Media as I wanted to explore a variety of media that will advance my knowledge in the industry. Flinders offers varying subjects from digital graphic design to motion capture and VFX. I have always been a creative person while loving technology and using programs. I didn't want to be on the film set or photoshoot, I wanted to be the postproduction person creating all the after-magic.
Sophie Hughes, Bachelor of Creative Industries (Digital Media)
”
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
An introduction to the creative arts
Topics in communication; media and society; screen production; essential multimedia
Development of creative and communication skills, with hands-on experience in screen production and multimedia design
An exploration and analysis of media in social and historical contexts.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
Topics in innovation and creative enterprise
Topics in multimedia production, digital graphic design, CGI foundations, studio practice
The opportunity to build upon your digital media skills in graphic design, multimedia production, CGI and studio practice
An introduction to theories of reconciliation and indigenous knowledges, cultural value and innovation in creative enterprise.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
Topics in digital games, VFX histories and theories, project design and development, cultural leadership and applied creative practice
The opportunity to apply your knowledge to the development of digital media projects including visual effects and games, working both independently and collaboratively
Development of skills in cultural leadership, strategic thinking and business planning in the development
Delivery of an interdisciplinary creative project.
View study program (City)
Practical experience
Practical experience is embedded in each year of the course. You’ll study screen production, graphic design and multimedia skills, using a variety of technologies and applications. In your third year, you’ll  apply these skills to the development of your own significant project. Each master class is a 3-day intensive workshop which is taught by an artist at the top of their industry.
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas with a student exchange program.
The Void
Flinders' cutting-edge motion capture and virtual production stage. Transport your ideas onto the digital screen with Unreal Engine!
Jump into The Void
Connect with industry leaders
You will benefit from our strong connections to industry leaders that will provide you with practical, real-world industry experience.
Our students have worked on industry projects with South Australian companies, such as Rising Sun Pictures, CDW Animation and Mini Mammoth Games.
The unique partnership between Flinders and Moving Picture Company, a Technicolor Creative Studio, allows our Creative Arts students to work directly with industry to develop the specialist creative and technological skills to enter the growing VFX industry.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
98.10
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
79.40
82.35
Lowest rank to receive an offer
53.90
60.85
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
22
38%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
22
38%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
5
9%
International Students
5
9%
All students
58
100%
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
284191 (City)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
For applicants using their SACE (Year 12) results (or equivalent), entry is subject to achieving a minimum selection rank of 60.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Game Production)
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Visual Effects and Entertainment Design)
Bachelor of Creative Industries (Interactive Design)
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic pathway programs
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS