Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/honours-bachelor-arts


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Arts (Honours) 1 year
Undertake an Honours year in Arts
Knowledge meets innovation in an arts honours of your design.
Satisfy your curiosity about the world around you. Tailor your continued education with an Honours year in your area of specialisation. Arts Honours studies can be completed in a range of disciplines from humanities, social sciences, languages, culture, and creative arts. Set yourself apart and immerse yourself in knowledge and original research that inspires you.
CRICOS code: 011854G
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

Why undertake an Honours year in Arts at Flinders
Create an extended piece of research in a chosen area of specialisation
Learn from Flinders’ range of experts spanning a range of disciplines
Expand possibility for interdisciplinary research
Increase knowledge, theoretical understanding and communications skills
Advance your skills in academic writing and presentation
Establish links with research students, scholars and industry contacts
Prepare for postgraduate studies, research higher degree or doctorate
Your career
Show your skills in innovative problem solving and creative thinking and expand your job opportunities. An Honours in Arts offers high-level transferrable skills for the workplace or a career in research.
Potential occupations include:
researcher in your area of specialisation
policy officer
project officer
communications officer
educationalist
arts worker
Potential employers include:
government
education institutions
private consultancies
policy and planning departments
community services and development
research organisations
creative industries
startups
Your path toward a higher degree by research
Studying Honours will provide a solid grounding in research skills and enhanced knowledge to help you progress towards a higher degree by research. Use skills you will acquire in research, critical analysis and innovative problem solving and be a part of new discoveries that will shape our world.
Find out more
Your path toward a higher degree by research
Studying Honours will provide a solid grounding in research skills and enhanced knowledge to help you progress towards a higher degree by research. Use skills you will acquire in research, critical analysis and innovative problem solving and be a part of new discoveries that will shape our world.
Find out more
What you will study - areas of specialisation
Enhance your knowledge, research skills and critical analysis of the world through an Honours year. Through an independent research project and thesis, you can complete your studies in a range of disciplines from humanities, social sciences, languages, culture and creative arts. There are more than 20 areas to specialise in including:
Humanities and social sciences
Archaeology
Criminology
Geography and environmental studies
Indigenous and Australian studies
History
Innovation and enterprise
International relations
Law and society
Philosophy
Politics
Sociology
Women’s and gender studies
Languages and culture
Applied linguistics
English
French
Italian
Modern Greek
Spanish
Creative arts
Creative writing
Drama
Screen and media
View study program
There are a range of opportunities for Honours students to work with our scholars on existing research projects. There are also bursaries available.
View honours brochure
Entry requirements
Entry into one-year Honours is highly competitive. If you have demonstrated academic excellence (a Grade Point Average of 5.0 or above) during your bachelor degree you are invited to apply for Honours.
Whether you’re invited to apply, or want to apply, you will need to contact the Honours coordinator in your discipline to discuss your project and arrange for supervision.
Search for an Honours coordinator
Apply
When to apply
Applications for 2025 are now open.
How to apply
Submit your application directly to Flinders University through the online application system.
If you have never studied at or made an application to Flinders University
, you can register and submit your application for admission to a 1-year Honours course using the
eApplication portal
. You will receive two emails once your application is completed: confirmation of application submission; and a second email with your student ID. Note, it may take 1-4 hours for your student ID to be created.
If you have studied at Flinders University within the last 12 months
you can submit your application for admission to a one-year Honours course via the
Student System
. You can apply for admission by selecting the
My Applications
tab at the top of the page, and searching for your course.
If you studied at Flinders University more than 12 months ago
you will need to
reactivate your FAN
first. With an active FAN you will then be able to submit your application for admission via the
Student System
as advised above.
Enquire
For all course enquiries phone, email or complete the enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Enquire
If you have a question about how to apply, please review our
Frequently Asked Questions
before submitting an enquiry.
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 05 Nov 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS