Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-business-sports-management


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Business (Sports Management)
Study Sports Management at Flinders
Make sport your business.
Sport is serious business. Get the skills to shape the game behind-the-scenes with a Flinders Bachelor of Business (Sports Management).
Sports management is a broad curriculum, mixing enterprise skills with finance, marketing and digital leadership. You’ll learn how to project manage big events, develop grassroots community programs and keep a sports club running smoothly. Ready to get in the game?
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
65.00
Guaranteed selection rank
70.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
244041 (Bedford Park) 284121 (City)
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $16,320
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
058294B
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $36,500
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
244041 (Bedford Park)
284121 (City)
Why study Sports Management at Flinders
Learn from Australia’s leading academics and sports management professionals
Get future-ready with hands-on industry placements
Study a broad curriculum, with exposure to strategy, finance, leadership skills and physical activities
Leverage Flinders’ national contacts in sporting clubs, governing bodies and community groups
Your career
Your dream careers starts here. Flinders Sports Management opens doors to a range of exciting careers in growing fields including the management of sports professionals, community sports programs, governing bodies, clubs, venues and events.
Potential occupations include:
premier league coach
business advisor
operations manager
middle and senior level manager in sports organisations
sports marketer
sports management consultant
community program manager
sports researcher
business entrepreneur in sports and recreation.
Potential employers include:
sports clubs and organisations
local sports clubs
local councils.
Take the field
They say 90% of sport is played between the ears. But nothing trumps getting out onto the field and putting theory into practice. Flinders Bachelor of Business (Sports Management) gives you a chance to actually build a professional network. To get out of the classroom and into the industry.
Get hands-on experience with Flinders’ sports industry work placements
Examine real-world case studies and live sports management problems
Build your contacts through our extensive professional network
Learn practical management skills to boost your employment potential
Play your way
Sports management is evolving. Future employers are looking for more than just book smarts. They need graduates who think differently.
A Bachelor of Business (Sports Management) is all about flexibility. You should be able to tailor the degree to suit your interests, but also boost your CV. That’s why we introduced Flinders Innovation and Enterprise electives.
These optional subjects help develop what we call ‘personal enterprise skills’ – transferable qualities like leadership, creativity, teamwork and resilience. Everything employers are looking for. There’s no better way to future-proof your sports management career.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
introduction to sports management, including marketing, accounting, club economics and innovation, plus sports and physical activities
a mix of additional business topics and electives.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
a deeper dive into sports governance, legal and administrative responsibilities, and large-scale event management
a mix of additional business topics and electives.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
a look at the future of sports management, including sports law, leadership and governance, coaching and administration
a mix of additional business topics and electives.
View study program
View study program (City)
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
96.30
98.80
Median rank to receive an offer
73.47
76.58
Lowest rank to receive an offer
59.15
65.10
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
26
35%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
18
24%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
16
21%
International Students
7
9%
All students
75
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
244041 (Bedford Park)
284121 (City)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Business
Bachelor of Commerce
Bachelor of Arts
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 24 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS