Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-creative-industries-writing-publishing


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Creative Industries (Writing and Publishing)
Study Creative Industries (Writing and Publishing) at Flinders
Start your career as an editor, publisher or writer for a range of industries.
Professional writing skills are in high demand across all industries, and this degree will help prepare you for employment in our diverse and fast-paced economy. In this flexible degree you'll study diverse forms of writing across multiple genres and build a path based on your unique interests, with topics available from across the creative industries, arts and broader university, allowing you to create your own unique story.
Taught by award-winning authors with close links to industry, you'll gain real-world experience to help you gain employment across a range of industries. With small class-sizes and hands-on learning, you'll join a community of likeminded creatives who will become your support network from day one.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
60.00
Guaranteed selection rank
65.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
284231
Delivery mode
In person:
– City
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $10,800
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
102679D
Delivery mode
In person:
– City
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $33,800
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
284231 (City)
Why study Creative Industries (Writing and Publishing) at Flinders
Study diverse genres and forms (romance, sci-fi, fantasy, literary, series, novels, short stories).
No.1 in SA in Creative Arts for learner engagement, skills development, student support and teaching quality (The Good Universities Guide 2023 (undergraduate), public SA-founded universities only)
Ranked above world standard for Research in Performing Arts and Creative Writing (ERA 2018 Outcomes, Flinders University)
Build your degree based on your unique interests from across the Creative Arts, Industries or broader University – e.g. Visual Effects and Entertainment Design, Film and Television, Costume Design.
Connect with industry from day one with regular contact with global industry professionals, including bespoke guest lectures, workshops, networking events, and placement opportunities. Our students have worked with award-winning authors, publishers, literary agents, producers, screenwriters and editors.
Experience a strong sense of community within each creative writing cohort
Small, bespoke classes taught by award-winning and best-selling writers who are prominent in their fields and highly experienced in the publishing industry
Build a strong portfolio to gain employment in the industry or to be used for applications into another degree such as the
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Creative Writing)
Gain hands-on experience working on real-world projects
You’ll collaborate with other students from across the university, not just from the Creative Arts and Industries, but in Science, Engineering, Health, and more
Gain the skills you need for a career as an editor, publisher or writer across a broad range of industries
Non-portfolio entry degree
Your career
You will graduate with the skills required to write, edit or publish creatively and/or commercially. Writers, editors and publishers are commonly perceived as being self-employed, but many find employment in government, media, and for non-writing arts organisations. Writing well is an ability sought after across all art-forms and industries.
Potential occupations include:
writer
editor
consultant
marketing and communications
digital content producer
Potential employers include:
publishers
media corporations
screen and theatre production companies
games design companies
freelance work and independent productions
“
I chose to study Writing and Publishing at Flinders because of the practical experience and flexibility that is possible within this degree. I am able to explore my other interests like philosophy, English and social media studies while also perfecting and gaining experience in my craft.
Lydia Alabaster, Bachelor of Creative Industries (Writing and Publishing)
”
What you will study
First year
Core creative writing studies exploring the nature and stimuli of literary ideation.
The practical considerations of writing a short story.
Theory and exercises designed to broaden students’ understanding and applications of creative writing.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
An introduction to the publishing industry through case studies and exercises that will prepare students for the workplace as well as hone their own editing skills.
Close examination and practical exploration of genre and its role in the marketplace that will further broaden students’ skillsets to enable them to be better readers as well as writers.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
Further exploration of short forms as well as critical and editorial practices.
An introduction to larger structures, such as novels and series of novels.
View study program (City)
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Students will:
brainstorm and develop ideas under guidance from lecturers and in peer cohorts
develop skills necessary for turning ideas into stories, novels, and series of novels
practice engagement with industry professionals, such as editors and publishers.
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas with a student exchange program.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
98.10
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
79.40
82.35
Lowest rank to receive an offer
53.90
60.85
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
22
38%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
22
38%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
5
9%
International Students
5
9%
All students
58
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
284231 (City)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
For applicants using their SACE (Year 12) results (or equivalent), entry is subject to achieving a minimum selection rank of 60.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Media and Communication
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic pathway programs
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS