Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-science-honours-chemical-sciences


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Science (Honours) (Chemical Sciences)
Study Chemical Sciences at Flinders
Explore the science central to all other sciences.
Gain a broad-based foundation in chemistry and enables you to acquire extensive knowledge in the area. You will learn to understand and apply chemical principles to solve problems, master lab techniques and equipment, undertake chemistry research, communicate your findings, and develop an understanding of the multidisciplinary nature of chemistry and its role in society.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
80.00
Guaranteed selection rank
85.00
TAFElink
Diploma or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
234381
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
4 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $8,944
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
089670D
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
4 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $41,400
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
234381 (Bedford Park)
Why study Chemical Sciences at Flinders
Understand and apply chemical principles to solve problems
Master the various laboratory techniques and instrumentation used in diverse chemical fields
Present information about chemistry in a scientific manner, including communicating effectively with a variety of audiences
Apply chemistry research and knowledge to solve problems or form hypotheses
Appreciate the multidisciplinary aspect of the discipline of chemistry and engage positively with people and ideas beyond the discipline
Your career
Your degree is the first step towards a range of employment opportunities.
Potential occupations include:
analytical chemist
assistant formulation chemist
graduate chemist
graduate quality control chemist
laboratory metallurgical technician.
Potential employers include:
wine and food companies
pharmaceutical industry
mining industry
petrochemical and petroleum industries
automotive industry
research and analytical laboratories.
Professional accreditation/recognition
The degree is accredited by the Royal Australian Chemical Institute Incorporated.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
core topics in chemical structure and bonding, and modern chemistry
topics in earth and environmental sciences, and marine sciences, or the evolution of biological diversity, and the molecular basis of life
a mathematics topic.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
core topics in chemical reactivity, organic reactions, spectroscopy and data analysis, and separation science.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
core topics in applied spectroscopy and electrochemistry, inorganic and organometallic chemistry, organic synthesis and mechanism, and an introduction to polymer science.
Honours year
A typical honours year may include:
a major chemical sciences research thesis allowing high-performing students to progress to a higher degree by research
further development of professional skills, particularly those relevant to research and development.
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workplace through a professional placement in your final year.
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas through internships and short-term study abroad programs.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.85
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
88.20
92.78
Lowest rank to receive an offer
71.15
81.75
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
8
21%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
20
53%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
7
18%
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
<5
<5
International Students
0
0
All students
38
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree
You can combine this degree with any other bachelor degree within the College of Science and Engineering, subject to meeting entry requirements.
Search all combined degree options
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
234381 (Bedford Park)
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, another Flinders degree you might want to include in your list is the:
Bachelor of Science
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS