Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-media-communication


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Media and Communication
Study Media and Communication at Flinders
Share stories and ideas with the world.
Skills in media and communication are essential to every industry, and the market for media and communication experts is expanding exponentially.
As the only degree in South Australia that targets the new professions in global communication and combines communication studies, creative digital media, and business skills, this degree has been designed and developed with the industry in mind. You'll gain the skills to research, write, design and produce content for the ever-changing media landscape.
Choosing to specialise in Digital Media, Strategic Communication, Public Relations, or Business Skills and Entrepreneurship, you'll become an informed content creator and will be equipped to persuade and inform different audiences, create graphics and images, publish and maintain communication on various platforms, and undertake marketing and public relations activities. You'll also develop practical industry knowledge and the contacts to graduate prepared for a challenging career.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
65.00
Guaranteed selection rank
75.00
TAFElink
Diploma or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
284591
Delivery mode
In person:
– City
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $16,320
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July (Festival Plaza only)
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
098433J
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $33,800
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July (Festival Plaza only)
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
284591 (City)
Why study Media and Communication at Flinders
The only degree in South Australia that combines communication studies, creative digital media and business skills.
Careers for Media Professionals are expected to grow by 7.3%, Advertising and Marketing Professionals by 11.4%, and Multimedia Specialists and Web Developers by 13.7% to November 2026*
Choose from a range of electives across the University including Indigenous and Australian histories, languages, screen and media, marketing, gender studies, digital media.
Choose to specialise in Digital Media, Strategic Communication, Public Relations, or Business Skills and Entrepreneurship.
Teaching is delivered through a combination of Lectures, Tutorials, Seminars, Online components, and Workshops
No.1 in SA in Communications for overall experience (QILT Student Experience Survey 2019 & 2020 (undergraduate) public SA-founded universities only)
No.1 in SA in Communications for overall educational experience, skills development, student support and teaching quality (The Good Universities Guide 2022 (undergraduate), public SA-founded universities only)
Five Stars in Communications for learning resources, overall educational experience, skills development, student support and teaching quality (The Good Universities Guide 2022 (undergraduate)).
*National Skills Commission Employment Projections to November 2026
Your career
Media is everywhere. Communication is everything. Skills in media and communication are vital to every industry.
How long is a piece of string? A career in media and communication is one of the most diverse and ever-changing landscapes you can enter into.
Gone are the days of traditional media being limited to television and newspapers. You could work in digital media, video production, radio, podcasting, public relations, journalism or social media, to name a few.
Potential occupations include:
content creator
chief communications officer
social media specialist
public relations officer
marketing specialist
media liaison
content strategist
digital copywriter.
Potential employers include:
multinational news and entertainment corporations
theatre/dance companies
galleries
publishers
start-ups
local and national government
advertising agencies.
Hear from our students
"
Being at Flinders allowed me to further my writing skills as well as enhance new professional skills like game design, critical thinking and graphic design. Media and Communication taught me more about how these fields work and was able to increase my skills. The internship topic in this degree is how I got to the Don Dunstan Foundation and connections made during my studies aided in my writing career. I still use my skills and knowledge attained during my studies every day, even when I’m not working.
Read more
Cameron Lowe
Bachelor of Media and Communication
Media and Communication student Courtney Pedler
Media and Communication student Sean Kemp
What you will study
First year
A typical first year might include:
core topics in visual communication, marketing principles, writing for digital environments, convergence cultures and multimedia
option topics in areas such as business, tourism, entrepreneurship, and media.
Second year
A typical second year might include:
a selection of core topics covering social media marketing, technical writing, journalism, digital graphic design, media policy and multimedia production
a topic in communication theory
option topics such as consumer behaviour, marketing communications, culture and communication, ethics, Australian/Indigenous media, interaction design, media and cultural identities.
Third year
A typical third year might include:
a selection of core topics covering publishing and editing; writing for PR and advertising; and writing for business, the public sector and media audiences
a work placement in communication
a selection of optional topics covering e-business, marketing, governance, sustainability and ethics, intercultural communication, politics and the internet, scriptwriting, and digital games.
View study program (City)
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for a range of international careers, through hands-on experience, as well as skills in conceptual rigour and critical thinking, all of which increase your professional versatility.
Study abroad
Flinders has a series of international exchange links that give you a chance to study part of your degree overseas. Gain another perspective, gather experience and immerse yourself in the culture of another country.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
89.70
93.35
Median rank to receive an offer
75.92
80.75
Lowest rank to receive an offer
60.25
66.45
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
<5
<5
Vocational education and training (VET) study
0
0
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
5
42%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
<5
<5
International Students
0
0
All students
12
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
284591 (City)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Creative Writing)
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Visual Arts)
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Visual Effects and Entertainment Design)
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Visual Effects and Entertainment Design) (Honours)
Bachelor of Creative Industries (Writing and Publishing)
Bachelor of Creative Industries (Theatre and Performance)
Bachelor of Creative Industries (Interactive Design)
Bachelor of Creative Industries (Festivals and Arts Production)
Bachelor of Creative Industries (Digital Media)
Bachelor of Tourism and Events
Bachelor of International Business (Wine, Spirits and Tourism)
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic pathway programs
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS