Link: https://flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-performance-theatre-making


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Performance (Theatre Making)
Study Bachelor of Performance (Theatre Making) at Flinders Drama Centre
Learn to lead behind the scenes through the design, development, and delivery of live and digital performance projects.
Create original stories for stage and screen through hands on experience across the production pipeline in the Bachelor of Performance (Theatre Making). From performance experience and writing to design development and production management, this is an interdisciplinary program that will help you develop the skills and knowledge required to turn dreams into reality.
The Bachelor of Performance (Theatre-Making) will replace the Bachelor of Creative Industries (Theatre and Performance) from 2024.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
60.00
Guaranteed selection rank
70.00
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
245141
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $9,870
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
113438H
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $33,800
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
245141 (Bedford Park)
Why study Theatre-Making at Flinders
Develop performance skills, creative skills, and production management skills
You’ll learn to work with a diverse range of professionals within the performance industry
You’ll have the opportunity to work on real-world productions
Develop both critical thinking and creative problem solving skills
You’ll have the opportunity to develop an array of skills as you explore your path within performance.
Your career
This degree will open the doors to a range of career opportunities in theatre and performance, and the broader creative industries. You’ll graduate with portable skills and knowledge applicable to a wide range of roles.
Potential occupations include
Theatre producer
Arts event manager
Drama teacher
Stage manager
Arts administrator.
Potential employers include
Local government organisations
Theatre companies
Youth arts organisations
Schools
Freelance work and independent productions.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
Develop your skills in performance with classes in improvisation, movement, voice and text analysis.
Gain a practical understanding of the behind-the-scenes skills that bring productions to life.
Develop your critical understanding through study of the history of drama, by reading and workshopping significant scripts.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
Gain hands-on experience facilitating educational arts workshops.
Continue to explore behind-the-scenes production roles, enhanced by skills drawn from electives across the Creative Arts.
Expand your critical understanding of the theories, movements and innovators in contemporary performance practice.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
Be challenged to take the lead, pitching and delivering your own unique projects across a variety of platforms.
Engage with and design community-engaged arts projects.
Deepen your understanding of creative practice as a method for critical thinking and research.
View study program
Practical experience
Practical, industry-focussed experience is woven throughout this degree. You’ll have the opportunity to work in collaboration with other artists, industry stakeholders and community organisations.
You’ll produce performance events, and develop skills in management, funding, and communication in the cultural industries.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
97.55
98.75
Median rank to receive an offer
81.00
84.15
Lowest rank to receive an offer
53.15
62.00
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
36
59%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
0
0
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
16
26%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
6
10%
International Students
<5
<5
All students
61
100%
Hear from our students
“
Flinders Drama Centre dramatically influenced the course of my life and career. When I started my studies at Drama Centre as an acting student, I was a 19-year-old teenager who had no idea that becoming a theatre director was an option for me.
My teachers identified this as a potential avenue for me, and gave me the courage and confidence to pursue directing as a career. Flinders Drama Centre set me up for employment in the industry by teaching me the craft of theatre direction, providing industry placement opportunities, giving me a voice as an emerging artist and teaching me to be bold in my artistic choices.
Nescha Jelk, Flinders alumni.
”
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
245141 (Bedford Park)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through Adult Entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
For applicants using their SACE (Year 12) results (or equivalent), entry is subject to achieving a minimum selection rank of 60.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Performance (Directing)
Bachelor of Performance (Acting)
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Dance)
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Screen)
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check the entry requirements.
(See fast facts at top of the page and
additional entry requirements
)
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online.
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 10 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS