Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-health-sciences-physiology-neuroscience


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Health Sciences (Physiology and Neuroscience)
Study Health Sciences (Physiology and Neuroscience) at Flinders
Start a healthy career
Specialisation topics in Physiology and Neuroscience aim to equip you with a detailed knowledge of body systems, anatomy, and neuroscience. Gain a well-grounded knowledge of the nervous system and study how our brain and body functions.  A degree in Health Sciences will equip you with transferable skills and experience, providing a strong foundation for future endeavours in health or further study.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
65.00
Guaranteed selection rank
70.00
TAFElink
Diploma or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
244371
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $9,800
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
020920E
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $44,500
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
244371 (Bedford Park)
Why study Health Sciences (Physiology and Neuroscience) at Flinders
This course has real flexibility. Create your own future by preparing to work in a variety of roles within health.
We prepare you for practice in the real world through work placements, allowing you to develop industry connections and practical skills.
Our teaching staff are experienced health professionals with rich and diverse backgrounds, sharing a broad range of connections to industry.
You will develop a suite of transferable skills that are relevant to a variety of health environments and can be built upon with further study.
This degree will open the door to various workplace settings including corporate or government departments, not-for-profit organisations, or community health centres.
Your career
This degree will lead to a wide range of careers in varied health care settings. Follow your own pathway in the health care sector by putting the wide suite of transferable skills we’ve taught you to practice in a range of environments.
Potential occupations include:
health promotion officer
drug diversion assessor
community health officer
clinical trials study assistant
policy officer
health and aged care support worker
clinical research assistant
laboratory technician.
Potential employers include:
government and non-government agencies
local councils
private practice
hospitals
community health clinics
not-for-profit organisations
schools and education facilities including universities.
research institutions
medical or scientific publications or media outlets.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
core topics in communication and interprofessional practice, human bioscience, Indigenous health for health sciences, contemporary health issues in Australia, research and study skills
choice of a range of option topics aligned to specialisations.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
further development of research and study skills
critical social analysis of health and psychological perspectives of health
specialist topics in physiology and neuroscience
a selection of electives.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
extension of research skills, preparation for your future career, and the study of legal and ethical aspects of healthcare
advanced topics contributing towards your specialisation
a selection of electives.
View study program
Practical experience
This degree provides you with the option to undertake a work placement, preparing you for the workforce and giving you the opportunity to build industry connections and develop practical skills, ensuring you are career ready.
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas with a student exchange program.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.40
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
73.35
77.78
Lowest rank to receive an offer
57.75
65.50
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
46
34%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
11
8%
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
37
28%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
2
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
17
13%
International Students
18
13%
All students
134
100%
Get inspired
Gain industry experience at Flinders
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
244371 (Bedford Park)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Rural and remote sub-quotas
An annual subquota is available for applicants from rural and remote areas. To be considered for the rural and remote subquota applicants must apply to SATAC in the normal way.
Applicants must also, within 10 working days after submitting the SATAC application, submit a Statutory Declaration to SATAC which confirms that they have lived in non-metropolitan areas of Australia (Remoteness Classifications RA2 to RA5) for at least 5 consecutive years, or 10 years cumulatively, from birth (i.e. during any period of their life). A Statutory Declaration form can be
downloaded here
(PDF 95KB).
Applicants can check their eligibility in accordance with the definition above using
the search tool
at the Remoteness Area (RA) Locator site. Filter your search using the ASGS Remoteness Areas (2016) layer.
Am I eligible?
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, you might want to include the
Bachelor of Nursing
in your list
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 24 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS