Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-criminology-cybersecurity


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Criminology (Cybersecurity)
Study Cybersecurity at Flinders
Develop the skills and knowledge required to address the technological challenges of the criminal justice sector and related fields.
With a focus on technology, this Criminology specialisation explores the causes of crime and solutions to address its impact on people and infrastructures, and minimise the social and psychological harms it can cause.
By undertaking a selection of cybersecurity-focused topics, you will develop a comprehensive understanding of the impacts of communications technology, enterprise systems and information networks on the criminal justice sector, and have the opportunity to learn from world-class researchers in the areas of cybercrime and security.
Learn how to apply your knowledge and skills in professional settings, and succeed within this growing field.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
65.00
Guaranteed selection rank
70.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
244901
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $13,100
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
092879E
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $33,900
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
244901 (Bedford Park)
Why study Criminology (Cybersecurity) at Flinders?
Learn from South Australia’s largest and most experienced Criminology department
Gain technology-focused knowledge to set you apart in a world where cybercrime is increasingly prevalent
Develop technological knowledge skills through a range of computer science topics
Criminology jobs are emerging as one of the top ten jobs in demand*
Connect with leaders: our powerful industry partnerships span government bodies, public and private organisations, and other universities across Australia and overseas
* (job.outlook.gov.au, data accessed 20/03/21 & World Economic Forum
The Future of Jobs Report 2020
)
Your career
This degree will prepare you for a career addressing challenges related to cybercrime and security, including the social harm caused by technology. Opportunities exist in the criminal justice sector and related fields.
Potential occupations include:·
State/Federal Police Officer
Cybersecurity Analyst
Information Security Officer
Defence and Intelligence Analyst
Fraud and Scam Investigator
Cybercrime Researcher / Consultant
Potential employers include:·
Government departments
Private businesses
E-commerce
Banking and Financial Institutions
Not-for-profit Organisations
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
Foundational topics in criminology, introducing areas such as criminal law, the criminal justice system, crime data, crime and criminology, and race and representation
Specialised topics in computational intelligence, computer networks, and forensic practice.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
Enhanced topics building on first year that explore policing, the social impacts of punishment, criminological research methods and data, and victims and trauma
Specialised topics in cybercrime and digital risk, and digital forensics
Third year
A typical third year may include:
Exposure to advanced topics where you will apply your knowledge of criminology theory and advanced research methods and analysis
Specialised topics in information security and advanced enterprise security
A choice of innovative elective topics providing enhanced understanding of areas such as international criminal justice, crime in the media, and others.
Practical experience
Immerse yourself in Industry Projects or Placements with small or medium-sized businesses, or government departments that address issues relating to Criminology.
You will gain comprehensive experience with the business you work for. If undertaking a project, you will conduct research and develop strategic insights and recommendations for your client, which could have real-world impact.
Students may participate in Work Integrated Learning as part of this course, including work placements, internships, or industry projects that are directly relevant to your studies.
Criminology students have previously completed placements in government departments, as well as industry and community organisations.
Participating in these opportunities will require screening checks to assess the risk of a person working with vulnerable people, such as a Working with Children Check.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
96.80
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
70.30
76.75
Lowest rank to receive an offer
58.35
66.20
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
21
22%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
0
0
Work and life experience
N/P
N/P
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
41
42%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
8
8%
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
18
19%
International Students
<5
<5
All students
97
100%
“My favourite thing is how in-depth the information we get is. They get us ready for when we graduate, for when we’re in the real world... teaching us on how to research properly, or how to collect data, or how to write reports, like lab reports.”
Chayse Babi, Bachelor of Criminology
Get inspired
Learn about Criminology with student Dulcie Bird
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
244901 (Bedford Park)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, another Flinders degree you might want to include in your list is the Bachelor of Criminology / Bachelor of Accounting combined degree, or the Bachelor of Criminology.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 30 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS