Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-science-biodiversity-conservation


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Science (Biodiversity and Conservation)
Study Biodiversity and Conservation at Flinders
Understand the science that will help solve real-world problems.
Develop the theory and skills that blend foundation science with Indigenous science. Apply this knowledge to work-integrated activities preparing you for our changing world. Students will analyse and interpret the impacts of key environmental drivers such as habitat destruction and fragmentation, changing climates, altered fire regimes and invasive species.
The degree teaches principles of reserve design, habitat restoration and other means of conserving species affected by human impacts. Importantly, it will allow you to prepare for negotiations with traditional custodians, local community groups, NGOs and governments responsible for land use management and conserving biodiversity assets.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
70.00
Guaranteed selection rank
75.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
234221
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $9,000
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
039816E
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $41,400
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
234371 (Bedford Park)
Why study Biodiversity and Conservation at Flinders
Understand the challenges facing the environment and wildlife populations
Specialist topics deal with the identification, monitoring and conservation of native plant and animal species, natural ecosystems, and the design of parks and reserves
No background in science required, just an inquiring mind
Get hands-on experience by developing your lab skills, conducting experiments and going on fieldtrips
Gain practical and theoretical knowledge in assessing the nature and value of biodiversity in natural and disturbed habitats
Learn about real-life and current conservation management techniques
Your career
The world has never been more attuned to environmental issues or the need to train and employ specialists who can help us reduce our impact and plan wisely for the future. Conservation has moved into the mainstream debate and biodiversity is high on the global agenda for governments, organisations and individuals.
Potential occupations include:
biodiversity conservation officer
biodiversity project officer
conservation programs assistant
graduate ecologist
national park officer.
Potential employers include:
national parks
museums
education bodies
research and development authorities
mine site rehabilitation bodies
environmental monitoring departments.
See all events
Events
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
core topics in biodiversity and conservation, evolution of biological diversity, and the molecular basis of life
elective topics in areas such as animal behaviour
a choice of topics in chemistry, earth sciences or computing from core topics.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
core topics in genetics, evolution and biodiversity, ecology, animal diversity, geographical information systems, and experimental design and statistics
a range of elective topics.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
core topics in conservation biology and restoration ecology, plant and algal diversity, vertebrate palaeontology, marine and freshwater biology, integrative physiology of animals and plants, human impacts and biodiversity, and ecological genetics
a selection of elective topics.
Honours year
A typical honours year may include:
additional hands-on research skills and knowledge
further scientific research in a science-related field
specialised topics and an individually supervised research project in an area that interests you.
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Go on a field ecology camp.
Enjoy fieldwork and practical training, projects involving teamwork, and the development of communication and professional skills.
Work with industry on real-life conservation projects and biodiversity management.
Undertake practical exercises involving identification of native plants and animals.
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas through internships and short-term study abroad programs, including:
international exchange programs with other universities
field experiences in countries such as Fiji, China and South Africa.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.70
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
79.85
83.78
Lowest rank to receive an offer
62.10
70.05
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
26
21%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
11
9%
Work and life experience
7
6%
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
46
37%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
30
24%
International Students
N/P
N/P
All students
126
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree
Expand your career options by combining this degree with one of the following:
Bachelor of Archaeology
You can also combine this degree with any other bachelor degree within the College of Science and Engineering, subject to meeting entry requirements.
Search all combined degree options
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
234221 (Bedford Park)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, another degree you might want to include in your list is the:
Bachelor of Science (Animal Behaviour)
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS