Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-health-sciences-master-occupational-therapy


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Health Sciences / Master of Occupational Therapy
Study Occupational Therapy at Flinders
Provide high quality therapy and client-centred care.
Develop the knowledge and skills required to become registered and work as an occupational therapist. The degree has a strong focus on preparing you for interprofessional practice, and on becoming a contemporary health professional able to work across a variety of settings and with a wide range of clients.
Alternatively, learn more about
studying Occupational Therapy in Port Pirie, Renmark, or Mt Gambier.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
Knowledge of SACE stage two biology or equivalent is assumed.
2024 selection rank
78.00
Guaranteed selection rank
95.00
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
224071 (Bedford Park)
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
5 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $10,800
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
Knowledge of SACE stage two biology or equivalent is assumed.
IELTS
overall
7.0
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Reading
6.5
Pearson
overall
65
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
0100689
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
5 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $44,500
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
224071 (Bedford Park)
Why study Occupational Therapy at Flinders
Develop skills and expertise preparing you for professional practice in occupational therapy
Support people's health and wellbeing by focusing on the things they need and want in their everyday lives
First-year observational placements provide early exposure to work as an occupational therapist
Provides 1000 hours of fieldwork experience in a range of clinical locations
Small class sizes and one-on-one tuition with supportive staff
Sub-quotas available for rural and remote applicants
Your career
Occupational therapists work in a variety of settings across public health, non-government organisations and private practice. Occupational Therapists are in demand across the health sector and this outlook is projected to continue.
Potential employers include:
state government departments such as health, disability and education
aged care providers
hospitals
rehabilitation services
mental health services
home-care services
private practice
paediatric services
GP Plus health care services.
Professional accreditation/recognition
This degree is accredited by the
Occupational Therapy Council of Australia Ltd
(OTC) and approved by the Occupational Therapy Board of Australia (OTBA).  Graduates will be eligible to apply for registration as an occupational therapist with the OTBA.  The program is also approved by the
World Federation of Occupational Therapists
.
See all events
Events
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
core topics in communication and interprofessional practice, human bioscience, health practitioner practice, health promotion for health professionals, legal and ethical aspects of health care, and introduction to occupational therapy
an elective topic.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
core topics in critical social analysis of health, psychological perspective of health, body systems, neuroscience for therapists, introduction to occupational science, and rehabilitation studies
a choice of elective topics.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
core topics in counselling, qualitative and quantitative methods of social health research, human physiology, human musculoskeletal anatomy, understanding disease and disability, preparation for occupational therapy practice, and rehabilitation studies.
Fourth and fifth year
A typical fourth and fifth year may include:
core topics in the occupational therapy profession, occupational science, information and technology, interprofessional practice, transition to contemporary professional practice and 1,000 hours of clinical placement.
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Undertake clinical simulation activities to enhance your learning experiences.
Develop a sound basis for professional practice.
Get hands-on experience in over 1,000 hours of supervised clinical placements.
Broaden your experience with at least one rural or remote clinical placement
What you will need
You will be required to undergo criminal history record assessments and immunisation against infectious disease prior to clinical placements.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.35
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
84.60
87.55
Lowest rank to receive an offer
72.55
75.20
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
21
32%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
28
42%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
8
12
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
<5
<5
International Students
<5
<5
All students
66
100%
Get inspired
Gain industry experience at Flinders
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
224071 (Bedford Park)
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Rural and remote sub-quotas
An annual subquota is available for applicants from rural and remote areas. To be considered for the rural and remote subquota applicants must apply to SATAC in the normal way.
Applicants must also, within 10 working days after submitting the SATAC application, submit a Statutory Declaration to SATAC which confirms that they have lived in non-metropolitan areas of Australia (Remoteness Classifications RA2 to RA5) for at least 5 consecutive years, or 10 years cumulatively, from birth (i.e. during any period of their life). A Statutory Declaration form can be
downloaded here
(PDF 95KB).
Applicants can check their eligibility in accordance with the definition above using
the search tool
at the Remoteness Area (RA) Locator site. Filter your search using the ASGS Remoteness Areas (2016) layer.
Am I eligible?
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, you may want to include the following in your list:
Bachelor of Disability and Developmental Education (Health Sciences Pathway)
Bachelor of Health Sciences
Bachelor of Nursing
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 17 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS