Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-science-palaeontology


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Science (Palaeontology)
Study Palaeontology at Flinders
Explore and interpret the history of life on Earth.
Focused on uncovering long-buried secrets that deepen our understanding of how life on Earth evolved, this degree provides you with in-depth knowledge and appreciation of the Australian fossil record in addition to a broad-based foundation in palaeontology and allied disciplines. You will also will develop a range of transferable research, analytical and communication skills.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
70.00
Guaranteed selection rank
75.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
224061
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $9,300
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
098228C
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $41,400
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
224061 (Bedford Park)
Why study Palaeontology at Flinders
Study the first and only palaeontology named degree in Australasia
Learn in our purpose-built Palaeontology Laboratory
Combine specialist palaeontology study with biodiversity and conservation, biological diversity, earth and environmental science, and biostatistics
Undertake a research project and further advanced level coursework as an honours student
Your career
This degree provides you with the tool-set necessary for palaeontological careers anywhere in the world, whether your interests include working in a museum, evolutionary studies, fieldwork, ecological/environmental research, teaching or science communication.
Potential occupations include:
collection manager (palaeontology)
resource information officer
technical officer
senior curator
scientific consultant.
Potential employers include:
universities (researcher/teacher)
museums (curator/collections manager)
science media agencies.
See all events
Events
This palaeontological laboratory at Flinders University is without a doubt the most important in the nation.
Professor Tim Flannery
Scientist, palaeontologist, Australia’s leading conservationist, environmentalist and global warming activist.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
an introduction to the basic concepts underpinning ecology and evolution
study of how we go about investigating and analysing the world around us
an introduction to biology, geology and biostatistical principles relating to the study of natural history
a number of elective topics enabling you to explore specific interests.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
an exploration of the diversity of life on Earth and how it has evolved
study of human evolution and the archaeological record of Australia
further investigation of geological, biological and ecological principles
electives options enabling you to expand your learning in archaeology, animal behaviour, ecology or science communication.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
vertebrate anatomy and palaeontology
field techniques in palaeontology
scientific illustration
elective topics enabling you to specialise in a particular facet of the palaeontological sciences.
Honours year
A typical honours year may include:
an honours research project enabling you to focus on a particular palaeontological discipline that interests you
development of the skill set necessary to become a research scientist.
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Gain hands-on experience in a range of field- and laboratory-based settings.
Collaborate on projects in our state-of-the-art, purpose-built hub.
Excavate and analyse real fossil deposits from the Naracoorte Caves (SA) and Alcoota Fossil Reserve (NT).
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas with a student exchange program.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.70
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
79.85
83.78
Lowest rank to receive an offer
62.10
70.05
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
26
21%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
11
9%
Work and life experience
7
6%
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
46
37%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
30
24%
International Students
N/P
N/P
All students
126
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree
You can combine this degree with any other bachelor degree within the College of Science and Engineering, subject to meeting entry requirements.
Search all combined degree options
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
224061 (Bedford Park)
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, you might want to include the
Bachelor of Science
in your list.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic pathway programs
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS