Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/honours-bachelor-creative-arts


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Honours) 1 year
Undertake an Honours year in Creative Arts
Make your creative mark.
Turn ideas into reality with an Honours year dedicated to your creative discipline. Under the guidance of accomplished creatives, you will work on a major creative project or creative research project of your choice. A range of study programs are available for writers, dancers, digital and visual effects designers, fashion designers, filmmakers, producers and directors, actors and actresses, photographers, and visual artists to hone their craft. Through an Honours year, you will gain experience in critical analysis, research and oral and written presentation skills that will help take your artistic pursuits further.
CRICOS code: 0101593
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

Why undertake an Honours year in Creative Arts at Flinders
Work with supervisors who are global experts in their creative fields
Create a major creative work or extended piece of creative research in your creative discipline
Enhance your skills in communication and presentation
Acquire high-level transferable skills for the workplace or as an independent artist
Prepare for further postgraduate studies
Your career
An Honours degree in Creative Arts offers the opportunity to refine your craft alongside experts in the field. Gain valuable experience, grow your portfolio, make industry connections and grow creative thinking skills to set yourself up for many job opportunities.
Potential occupations include:
artist
producer or director
videographer
photographer
graphic designer
visual effects designer
fashion designer
performer
actor/actress
content creator
Researcher in your area of specialisation
arts administrator
policy officer
project officer
communications officer
Potential employers include:
creative industries
government
education institutions
private consultancies
policy and planning departments
community services and development
research organisations
startups
“
A PhD was actually my goal when I started my undergrad (writing and reading for three to four years sounded amazing to me), and Honours was the hurdle in-between my undergrad and the PhD that needed jumping. But, in actuality, it became the creative writing cohort that I loved, including fellow students and professors/lecturers, and when my undergrad finished, I wasn't prepared to stop growing beside the friends I'd made yet. My Honours year solidified my connection to the Flinders writing community and helped me build relationships with industry professionals, so much so that I'm still not ready to let go of studying at Flinders and have stayed on to complete my PhD.
Abby Guy, Bachelor of Creative Arts (Honours)
”
“
There is nothing that compares to the tutorage we get in our degree, there's always a coffee date lined up, a laugh during lectures, a genuine sense of trust and responsibility amongst staff and students, and an overall level of enjoyment that makes you want to strive to be the best. I would never have gone on into Honours—and now almost a year later, a PhD—without the industry-leading professionals that always have your back, and the friends you make along the way.
Harrison Stewart, Bachelor of Creative Arts (Honours)
”
Your path toward a higher degree by research
Studying Honours will provide a solid grounding in research skills and enhanced knowledge to help you progress towards a higher degree by research. Use skills you will acquire in research, critical analysis and innovative problem solving and be a part of new discoveries that will shape our world.
Find out more
Your path toward a higher degree by research
Studying Honours will provide a solid grounding in research skills and enhanced knowledge to help you progress towards a higher degree by research. Use skills you will acquire in research, critical analysis and innovative problem solving and be a part of new discoveries that will shape our world.
Find out more
What you will study
An Honours year offers an opportunity to work in your area of specialisation at a higher level, harness support of expert lecturers and deepen your understanding of the creative industries sector. Your studies will comprise different topics depending on your program of study, picking from:
Creative Writing
Dance
Digital Media or Visual Effects and Entertainment Design
Drama Performance
Enterprise
Fashion
Screen
Visual Arts
View study program
There are a range of opportunities for Honours students to work with our scholars on existing research projects. There are also bursaries available.
View honours research projects
View honours brochure
Entry requirements
Entry into one-year Honours is highly competitive. If you have demonstrated academic excellence (a Grade Point Average of 5.0 or above) during your bachelor degree you are invited to apply for Honours.
Whether you’re invited to apply, or want to apply, you will need to contact the Honours coordinator in your discipline to discuss your project and arrange for supervision.
Search for an Honours coordinator
Apply
When to apply
Applications for 2025 are now open.
How to apply
Submit your application directly to Flinders University through the online application system.
If you have never studied at or made an application to Flinders University
, you can register and submit your application for admission to a 1-year Honours course using the
eApplication portal
. You will receive two emails once your application is completed: confirmation of application submission; and a second email with your student ID. Note, it may take 1-4 hours for your student ID to be created.
If you have studied at Flinders University within the last 12 months
you can submit your application for admission to a one-year Honours course via the
Student System
. You can apply for admission by selecting the
My Applications
tab at the top of the page, and searching for your course.
If you studied at Flinders University more than 12 months ago
you will need to
reactivate your FAN
first. With an active FAN you will then be able to submit your application for admission via the
Student System
as advised above.
Enquire
For all course enquiries phone, email or complete the enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Enquire
If you have a question about how to apply, please review our
Frequently Asked Questions
before submitting an enquiry.
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 05 Nov 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS