Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-speech-pathology


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Speech Pathology
Study Speech Pathology at Flinders
Help people with communication and swallowing difficulties.
Gain the comprehensive education needed to work successfully as a speech pathologist. Speech pathologists provide services across the lifespan to people whose educational, vocational, personal and social functioning is affected by communication or swallowing impairment resulting from developmental difficulties, social disadvantage, illness or accident.
Alternatively, learn more about
studying Speech Pathology in Port Pirie, Renmark, or Mt Gambier.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
78.00
Guaranteed selection rank
90.00
TAFElink
Advanced Diploma or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
214352
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
4 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $13,557
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
7.0
Writing
7.0
Speaking
7.0
Listening
7.0
Reading
7.0
Pearson
overall
65
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
004716J
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
4 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2024: $44,500
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
214352 (Bedford Park)
Why study Speech Pathology at Flinders
Learn from award-winning educators and an innovative evidence and enquiry-based curriculum
Prepare for the multidisciplinary world of speech pathology with a variety of group projects
Benefit from one of the highest number of placement hours for a speech pathology degree in Australia
Offers a research pathway for high-achieving students via our honours program
Sub-quotas available for rural and remote applicants
Your career
Speech pathology graduates are employed in a wide range of settings around the world and work with people of all ages, their carers/families, services, communities and other professionals across a wide variety of agencies.
Potential occupations include:
speech pathologist
project officer
researcher
manager
policy advisor.
Potential employers include:
healthcare sector (including hospitals, rehabilitation centres, community health services, mental health services)
aged care sector
disability services sector
education sector (including mainstream, special schools and special education units)
early childhood education sector
private practice
youth justice.
Professional accreditation/recognition
Graduates will meet the standards of Speech Pathology Australia (SPA), the national accrediting body, which will enable them to practise in Australia and many other countries around the world including the UK and Asia.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
core topics in introductory anatomy and physiology, anatomy and physiology of speech, child development and learning, psychosocial aspects of speech pathology, research methods in speech pathology, linguistics and phonetics, and an introduction to clinical skills and practice.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
core topics in communication development and disorders from birth to pre-school and school age to adolescence
study of motor speech disorders, and voice and swallowing disorders
practice experience in a range of settings.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
core topics in acquired language disorders and complex disorders involving child and adult populations
a number of speech pathology practicums.
Fourth year
A typical fourth year may include:
a core topic in research methods in speech pathology
study of clinical skills and practice covering transition to practice
a number of extended speech pathology practicums.
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
In third year, you will typically undertake two placements of one to two days per week throughout the semester.
In fourth year, you will typically undertake two block placements of six to eight weeks. These may be undertaken in Adelaide, regional areas of South Australia and the Northern Territory and, in some circumstances, overseas.
Placements are provided in a range of settings including childcare centres, state and independent schools, disability services, hospitals, rehabilitation centres, community health centres and aged care facilities.
What you will need
Prior to attending practical placements, you must complete a police check and be immunised in accordance with the relevant state or territory immunisation standards, for example Health Immunisation for Health Care Workers in South Australia 2014 Policy Guideline. Information will be provided to you prior to placement.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.35
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
90.90
93.75
Lowest rank to receive an offer
62.70
74.65
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
5
10%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
29
56%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
8
15%
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
<5
<5
International Students
<5
<5
All students
52
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Get inspired
Gain industry experience at Flinders
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
214352 (Bedford Park)
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Rural and remote sub-quotas
An annual subquota is available for applicants from rural and remote areas. To be considered for the rural and remote subquota applicants must apply to SATAC in the normal way.
Applicants must also, within 10 working days after submitting the SATAC application, submit a Statutory Declaration to SATAC which confirms that they have lived in non-metropolitan areas of Australia (Remoteness Classifications RA2 to RA5) for at least 5 consecutive years, or 10 years cumulatively, from birth (i.e. during any period of their life). A Statutory Declaration form can be
downloaded here
(PDF 95KB).
Applicants can check their eligibility in accordance with the definition above using
the search tool
at the Remoteness Area (RA) Locator site. Filter your search using the ASGS Remoteness Areas (2016) layer.
Am I eligible?
Northern Territory sub-quotas
An annual subquota is available for applicants from the Northern Territory (NT). To be considered for the NT subquota applicants must apply to SATAC in the normal way.
Applicants who gain entry in this degree through the subquota will be registered with the Flinders NT and required to travel and reside in the Northern Territory for their final year clinical placements. The Flinders NT will subsidise travel expenses up to the equivalent of an economy class one-way fare. Contact the Flinders NT at
fnt.placements@flinders.edu.au
for further details prior to application.
Applicants must meet one or more of the following criteria to be eligible for consideration for a subquota place: must have their principal place of residence in the NT; or must have been resident in the NT for a minimum period of two years, within the last five years; or must be a recent graduate (within the last 5 years) or a current student of Charles Darwin University.
Applicants must also, within 10 working days after submitting the SATAC application, submit a Statutory Declaration to SATAC which confirms that they meet the criteria for the NT subquota.
Download a Statutory Declaration form

Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Behavioural Science (Psychology)
Bachelor of Health Sciences
Bachelor of Medical Science
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
EXPLORE
OTHER CAREERS
IN HEALTH
There are amazing careers in health all over the world for you to discover.
Uncover your passion
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 24 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS