Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-science-honours-plant-science


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Science (Honours) (Plant Science)
Study Plant Science at Flinders
Branch Out. Study Plant Science.
Immerse yourself in the fascinating world of plant adaptation and survival. Learn how we can optimize plant productivity in response to global change — and earn an Honours degree!
Uniquely, part of the course will be devoted to authentic input from Indigenous people and their cultural use, understanding and relationship with local plants found in the Bedford Park campus.
Get hands-on experience with a diverse range of plant species, including oceanic algae, vital crops, and precious indigenous flora. Gain honours-level knowledge in plant physiology, molecular biology, and ecology, equipping you with the skills necessary for a rewarding career in agriculture, horticulture, biotechnology, environmental science, or conservation.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
80.00
Guaranteed selection rank
85.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
244801
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
4 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2023: $8,301
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
111464M
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
4 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $41,400
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
244801 (Bedford Park)
Why study Plant Science at Flinders?
You will benefit from the genuine input of Indigenous communities regarding their cultural use, understanding, and connection with local plants. Given the profusion of native plants at the Bedford Park campus, you will have the opportunity to gain a distinctive understanding of how plants influence both our surroundings and ourselves.
Due to the University’s unique and threatened natural surroundings, students will have the opportunity to help repair and explore the natural plant world through more than just the classroom, laboratory or greenhouse.
Study in an environment that gives you the real lived experience of being a plant scientist - Flinders doesn’t just teach plant science, it does it!
Learn about plants on a molecular level, right through to whole plant ecosystems whilst being surrounded by South Australia’s unique botanical environment every day!
Your career
By studying Plant Science (Honours), you'll acquire the knowledge and skills necessary to pursue diverse career opportunities in fields like environmental management and sustainability, horticulture, and food technology. With this foundation, you can help drive innovation and progress in these vital areas.
Potential occupations include:
Plant biologist / Agronomist:
Conduct research on plant growth, development, and reproduction, and apply findings to improve crop yield and develop sustainable farming practices, or develop and implement strategies to improve crop productivity and manage agricultural resources sustainably.
Horticulturist:
Design and maintain gardens, parks, and other green spaces, and cultivate a wide range of plants for aesthetic, ecological, and commercial purposes.
Environmental consultant:
Assess the impact of human activities on natural ecosystems, and provide recommendations for sustainable land use and conservation practices.
Biotech researcher:
Use genetic engineering and biotechnology to develop new plant varieties with desirable traits such as disease resistance, drought tolerance, or higher nutritional value.
Food scientist:
Work to improve the safety, quality, and nutritional value of food products, using plant-based ingredients and technologies to create new and innovative food products.
Potential employers include:
Government agencies
Non-government organisations
Consultancies
Horticultural sector
Food technology companies.
What you will study
First year
In the first year you will learn about plant science, receive an introduction to chemistry, study biostatistics, and explore biodiversity and conservation.
Second year
The second year will expand on the first year core topics, introducing biodiversity and ecology, biochemistry, and learning about innovation in STEM alongside elective subjects.
Third year
The third year of study will focus on the functions of plant systems, the impacts of global climate change, restoration ecology, molecular biology, and an optional research project.
Honours year
The final Honours year in Plant Science provides students with advanced skills that are required for planning, funding and carrying out research project.
On completion of the Honours degree students, students will be able to apply research skills appropriate to postgraduate research or advanced industrial investigation.
View study program
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.85
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
88.20
92.78
Lowest rank to receive an offer
71.15
81.75
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
8
21%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
20
53%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
7
18%
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
<5
<5
International Students
0
0
All students
38
100%
The Bachelor of Science (Plant Science) has an incredible offering for students — part of the curriculum will be devoted to authentic input from indigenous people and their cultural use, understanding and relationship with local plants. With the abundance of native plants on the Bedford Park campus, you will have a unique insight into how plants shape our environment and how they shape us.
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree
You can combine this degree with any other bachelor degree within the College of Science and Engineering, subject to meeting entry requirements.
Search all combined degree options
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
244801 (Bedford Park)
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, you might want to include the
Bachelor of Science
in your list.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic pathway programs
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 24 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS