Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-information-technology-data-analytics-honours


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Information Technology (Data Analytics) (Honours)
Study Information Technology at Flinders
Make sense of the data
The Bachelor of Information Technology (Data Analytics) produces accredited IT professionals ready to manage and innovate in challenging data-rich IT environments. Graduates of this degree will be able to develop systems to analyse, manage and bring insight to large quantities of complex information. They will be well placed to act as the bridge between the data and information needs of an organisation and the computing professionals required to provide the technical solutions.
The course provides education in the theoretical and practical aspects of information technology and systems management, preparing graduates for roles such as data engineer, data analyst, database administrator or consultant.
The course offers national best practice work experience and job placement, preparing you for the needs of the South Australian, Australian and international technology industry and public service sectors.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
70.00
Guaranteed selection rank
75.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
244841
Delivery mode
In person:
– Tonsley
Online: No
Duration
4 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $8,944
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
074830E
Delivery mode
In person:
– Tonsley
Duration
4 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $41,500
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
244841 (Tonsley)
Why study data analytics at Flinders?
Work with partners to design information models for a wide variety of complex, data-rich systems applicable to a wide range of industries
Study a broad range of both information technology and data analytics topics
Engage with multi-disciplinary teams from across the University in the design and construction of database and knowledge-based systems
Gain insight into the current trends in data engineering and its uses
Study the future directions of data analytics through a major thesis
Designed to be accredited by the Australian Computer Society
Study in our $120 million science and technology precinct at Tonsley.
Your career
Graduates with qualifications in data analytics, particularly those who also have strong, accredited IT skills, are in high demand across a broad range of industries such as commerce, defence, education and government. Your degree will prepare you to work across the IT industry particularly in areas where complex, data-rich environments exist.
Potential occupations include:
Data engineer
Data Analyst
Database administrator
Consultant.
Potential employers include:
information technology services
educational institutions
health industry
defence industry
government bodies
private sector.
Professional accreditation/recognition
All our current Bachelor of Information Technology and Bachelor of Computer Science degrees are accredited by the Australian Computer Society at the professional level.  This new degree has been designed to be similarly accredited.  Professional ICT courses accredited by the Australian Computer Society are recognised internationally under the Seoul Accord. Graduates meet the academic requirements for attaining chartered status as ICT professionals.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
core topics in the fundamentals of computing, computer programming, database design, network systems, cybersecurity, professional skills and data science.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
core topics in computer programming, database and conceptual modelling, computer networks, human factors in computing, systems software, and data analytics.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
core topics in computer programming, cloud and distributed computing, information security, software testing and quality assurance, project management, and the area of data mining and knowledge discovery. Students also undertake Flinders’ best-practice information technology practicum where students are placed in industry working with teams of computing professionals.
Honours year
A typical honours year may include:
a major thesis
a selection of computer, science, engineering and mathematics option topics.
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Develop all the necessary applied and practical skills for a career in IT.
Take the opportunity to gain first-hand industry experience with a 12-week industry placement.
Focus on skills in written and oral presentation, professionalism and teamwork for important vocational capabilities.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
96.30
98.80
Median rank to receive an offer
77.10
84.70
Lowest rank to receive an offer
62.70
65.25
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
20
24%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
10
12%
Work and life experience
N/P
N/P
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
27
33%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
10
12%
International Students
8
10%
All students
83
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
244841 (Tonsley)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include the
Bachelor of Information Technology
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 24 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS