Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/honours-bachelor-commerce


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Commerce (Honours) 1 year
Undertake an Honours year in Commerce
Elevate your business acumen and deepen your expertise.
Take your Bachelor of Commerce degree to the next level with an additional one-year Honours degree, where you’ll gain advanced knowledge and research skills, and deep dive into a topic. Through a significant research thesis, you’ll develop analytical, problem-solving and research skills, differentiating yourself in the competitive employment market.
This 1-year Honours degree can act as a launchpad to further study and research, including a PhD.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

Why undertake an Honours year in Commerce at Flinders
Access excellent research facilities
Collaborate with industry partners
Work with expert supervisors with both national and international expertise
Develop transferable analytical, collaborative, communication and presentation skills
Study at Bedford Park or Flinders' City Campus
Your career
Business, government and non-government sectors alike, in both Australia and internationally, have long recognised the value of Honours qualified managers and leaders.
Our Honours graduates enjoy a wide range of career opportunities where they utilise their research, analytical and critical thinking skills, their disciplinary expertise, and their ability to engage effectively with a broad range of audiences.
Potential occupations include:
Investment Banking Analyst
Quantitative researcher
Customers and taxation adviser
Portfolio governance analyst
Forensic accountant
Corporate insolvency manager
Merchant banker
Financial systems accountant
Credit and treasury administrator.
Potential employers include:
Large and medium sized businesses
Governments and NGOs
Business start-ups
Consultancy firms
Universities.
Your path toward a higher degree by research
Studying Honours will provide a solid grounding in research skills and enhanced knowledge to help you progress towards a higher degree by research. Use skills you will acquire in research, critical analysis and innovative problem solving and be a part of new discoveries that will shape our world.
Find out more
Your path toward a higher degree by research
Studying Honours will provide a solid grounding in research skills and enhanced knowledge to help you progress towards a higher degree by research. Use skills you will acquire in research, critical analysis and innovative problem solving and be a part of new discoveries that will shape our world.
Find out more
What you will study
The Honours program comprises 36 units of study that include your Honours thesis research project, topics in research design and methods that provide you with the required skills to complete your Honours research, as well as other topics specific to business studies.
There are a range of opportunities for Honours students to work with our scholars on existing research projects. There are also bursaries available.
View honours brochure
Entry requirements
Entry into one-year Honours is highly competitive. If you have demonstrated academic excellence (a Grade Point Average of 5.00 or above) during your bachelor degree you are invited to apply for Honours.
Whether you’re invited to apply, or want to apply, you will need to contact the Honours coordinator in your discipline to discuss your project and arrange for supervision.
Search for an Honours coordinator
Apply
When to apply
Applications for 2025 are now open.
How to apply
Submit your application directly to Flinders University through the online application system.
If you have never studied at or made an application to Flinders University
, you can register and submit your application for admission to a 1-year Honours course using the
eApplication portal
. You will receive two emails once your application is completed: confirmation of application submission; and a second email with your student ID. Note, it may take 1-4 hours for your student ID to be created.
If you have studied at Flinders University within the last 12 months
you can submit your application for admission to a one-year Honours course via the
Student System
. You can apply for admission by selecting the
My Applications
tab at the top of the page, and searching for your course.
If you studied at Flinders University more than 12 months ago
you will need to
reactivate your FAN
first. With an active FAN you will then be able to submit your application for admission via the
Student System
as advised above.
Enquire
For all course enquiries phone, email or complete the enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Enquire
If you have a question about how to apply, please review our
Frequently Asked Questions
before submitting an enquiry.
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 05 Nov 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS