Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/honours-bachelor-criminology


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Criminology (Honours) 1 year
Undertake an Honours year in Criminology
Understanding the drivers of crime
In the complex world of crime policy and research, an Honours program builds the competencies you need to confidently embark upon your future career. Honours develops research aptitude, opening the entry pathway to a higher degree by research or a PhD.
The Honours program also facilitates the development of advanced knowledge in your area of specialisation and builds project management skills. Successfully completing an Honours program demonstrates to future employers that you can take initiative, devise and implement your own project, write well, produce a substantive document, and work independently.
CRICOS code: 093039D
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

Why undertake an Honours year in Criminology at Flinders
Work with internationally recognized experts in criminology.
Access excellent research facilities.
Develop transferable analytical, collaborative, communication and presentation skills.
Establish relationships with scholars, and partners in government and industry.
Help address urgent social questions relating to global, national and local crime issues.
Your career
An Honours degree in Criminology situates you as a critical thinker with high-level research skills, making you a strong candidate for government and non-government policy and criminal justice positions. Honours students are also well-positioned to pursue further criminological research in the university sector.
Potential occupations include:·
Criminologist
Advocacy officer
Youth justice case manager
Community corrections officer
Investigation support officer
Policy maker/analyst
Intelligence officer
Security adviser
Researcher
Academic
Potential employers include:
Correctional services
Intelligence and security services
Police
Government
Universities
Your path toward a higher degree by research
Studying Honours will provide a solid grounding in research skills and enhanced knowledge to help you progress towards a higher degree by research. Use skills you will acquire in research, critical analysis and innovative problem solving and be a part of new discoveries that will shape our world.
Find out more
Your path toward a higher degree by research
Studying Honours will provide a solid grounding in research skills and enhanced knowledge to help you progress towards a higher degree by research. Use skills you will acquire in research, critical analysis and innovative problem solving and be a part of new discoveries that will shape our world.
Find out more
What you will study
The Honours program comprises 36 units of study that include your Honours thesis research project, topics in research design and methods that provide you with the required skills to complete your Honours research, as well as other topics specific to the study of criminology.
View study program
Entry requirements
Entry into one-year Honours is highly competitive. If you have demonstrated academic excellence (a Grade Point Average of 5.25 or above) during your bachelor degree you are invited to apply for Honours.
Whether you’re invited to apply, or want to apply, you will need to contact the Honours Coordinator to discuss you project and arrange for supervision.
Search for an Honours coordinator
Advance your career through a collaborative research project with an industry partner
Gain experience with credible organisations
Deepen your technical expertise and contribute in a meaningful way to your discipline
Accelerate your career progress, and gain access to a variety of research relevant roles
Gain access to leading-edge facilities and equipment through Flinders and your industry partner
Engage your mind and follow your curiosity while undertaking research that will change lives and the world
Apply for an Industry-Targeted Honours
Honours Bursary for College of Business, Government and Law students
Six bursaries are available annually for business, criminology, or government Honours students, and are valued at $5,000 per annum. The College of Business, Government and Law Honours Bursaries are available to students enrolled in Honours in business, criminology or government in the College and are selected based on academic merit if there are more eligible applicants than bursaries available.
Learn more
Business, Government and Law Reconciliation Scholarship for Indigenous Research Projects
The College of Business, Government and Law has established the Indigenous Research Honours Scholarship to promote reconciliation by furthering understanding and recognition of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultures, histories, knowledge and rights through related research projects.
This scholarship will be awarded to a student undertaking an Honours program at the College of Business, Government and Law whose Honours research project is in an area relevant to Indigenous scholarship.
Learn more
Business, Government and Law Honours Scholarship for Indigenous Students
The College of Business, Government and Law has established the Indigenous Research Honours Scholarship to promote reconciliation by furthering understanding and recognition of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultures, histories, knowledge and rights through related research projects.
This scholarship will be awarded to an Indigenous student undertaking an Honours program at the College of Business, Government and Law.
Learn more
Apply
When to apply
Applications for 2025 are now open.
How to apply
Submit your application directly to Flinders University through the online application system.
If you have never studied at or made an application to Flinders University
, you can register and submit your application for admission to a 1-year Honours course using the
eApplication portal
. You will receive two emails once your application is completed: confirmation of application submission; and a second email with your student ID. Note, it may take 1-4 hours for your student ID to be created.
If you have studied at Flinders University within the last 12 months
you can submit your application for admission to a one-year Honours course via the
Student System
. You can apply for admission by selecting the
My Applications
tab at the top of the page, and searching for your course.
If you studied at Flinders University more than 12 months ago
you will need to
reactivate your FAN
first. With an active FAN you will then be able to submit your application for admission via the
Student System
as advised above.
Enquire
For all course enquiries phone, email or complete the enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Enquire
If you have a question about how to apply, please review our
Frequently Asked Questions
before submitting an enquiry.
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS