Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-science


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Science
Study Science at Flinders
Explore science from its core to the outer limits.
Follow your interests in core sciences from a diverse range of disciplines with a Bachelor of Science. You have the flexibility to explore an area that interests you while getting a broad foundation in science by studying a major, or gaining more specific expertise and a named degree by studying a specialisation.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
60.00
Guaranteed selection rank
65.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
234511
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $9,000
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
055237B
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $41,400
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
234511 (Bedford Park)
Why study Science at Flinders
Provides great flexibility, allowing you to follow your interests without being confined by traditional boundaries
Offers career pathways and research opportunities in a broad and exciting range of professional areas
Does not require a science background, just an inquiring mind
Degrees are aligned with economic and employment trends
Develop crucial transferable skills in problem solving, communication, teamwork and computing
Your career
A degree in science opens up many job opportunities. Throughout the world there is a growing shortage of specialists who will create the next generation of ideas and products and help us maintain and conserve what we already have.
Potential occupations include:
laboratory technician
intellectual property analyst
bioinformatics technician
research assistant
graduate ecologist.
Potential employers include:
medical research organisations
the biotechnology industry
government and private consultancies
universities
science policy and planning departments
education institutions.
Professional accreditation/recognition
The chemistry major is accredited by the Royal Australian Chemical Institute.
The physics major is accredited by the Australian Institute of Physics.
See all events
Events
Majors
The broad range of majors available enables you to construct a study program that suits your interests.
The following major areas are available when you study a Bachelor of Science at Flinders:
Biology
The biology major provides students with a broad foundation in biological science, as well as more extensive knowledge in areas such as ecology, animal diversity, genetics, evolution and biodiversity, plant biology, and climate change.
Chemistry
Chemistry affects almost everything we do or use: from drugs, antibiotics and anaesthetics to polymers and plastics through to synthetic fibres and batteries.
Read more
Computing
The computing major provides you with a broad background in programming, databases, networks and computer systems, enabling you to develop technical expertise in computers and their application.
Earth Sciences
The Earth Sciences major covers a variety of areas across earth and environmental sciences, marine sciences, global climate change, hydrology and geology.
Geospatial Information Systems
Geospatial Information Systems (or GIS) is a sector that is expanding rapidly and being increasingly integrated into almost every discipline. GIS focuses on systems designed to create, manage, analyse, and leverage all forms of geographic data.
Mathematics
The mathematics major provides a firm foundation in the basic principles and techniques of modern mathematics, and an understanding of how mathematics is applied in the social and natural sciences.
Read more
Molecular Biology
The molecular biology major includes topics such as chemistry, genetics, evolution of biological diversity, biochemistry, and molecular biology.
Physics
The physics major provides an understanding of the fundamental laws of nature. You will develop an understanding of the broad spectrum of known phenomena from classic and modern science, and explore the frontiers of modern science.
Read more
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
If you already know what areas of study you wish to pursue, you can select the relevant first-year subjects that will lead to these areas.
If you have not yet made up your mind, you can select from a range of subjects that will allow you to sample a number of science areas. You can then select the area(s) you wish to pursue towards the end of the first year.
You can select general interest electives or science introductory subjects. Introductory science topics make the degree accessible to students who have not studied science or maths in senior school.
Second to third year
In second and third years you can choose to complete:
study towards a science major
a selection of science electives
a selection of non-science electives.
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workplace through project-based learning, which involves learning, research or live industry projects that enable you to develop knowledge and skills in a hands-on way.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
98.65
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
64.80
68.20
Lowest rank to receive an offer
54.05
61.10
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
8
28%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
6
21%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
11
38%
International Students
0
0
All students
29
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree.
Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Laws and Legal Practice
Combining the Bachelor of Science with the Bachelor of Laws and Legal Practice enables you to broaden your knowledge and learn to view the world from a variety of perspectives while developing professional legal skills and honing your independent and critical thinking. At the end of your degree, you will be eligible to apply to practise law.
Other combined degree options
You can also combine this degree with any other bachelor degree within the College of Science and Engineering, subject to meeting entry requirements.
Search all combined degree options
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
234511 (Bedford Park)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, some other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of Engineering Science
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 24 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS