Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-creative-arts-costume-design


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Costume Design)
Study Costume Design at Flinders
Bring characters to life through costume design.
Offered in collaboration with TAFE SA*, this degree enables you to design and construct costumes to create iconic looks and visually stunning garments. Costumes are a vital component of stage and screen productions, but are also used in cosplay, children’s entertainment, dance and competitions. Whatever your passion, at Flinders you’ll gain a practical and theoretical understanding of the costume industry.
* TAFE SA RTO Code: 41026
Don't fulfil the entry requirements? Not to worry. Flinders offers several
VET pathway options
for Costume Design.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
60.00
Guaranteed selection rank
65.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
234721
Delivery mode
In person:
– Adelaide CBD
– City (some topics)
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $10,100
Fees for each component are charged separately by each institution.
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
115225E
Delivery mode
In person:
– Adelaide CBD
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $33,800
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
234721 (Adelaide CBD)
Core topics are taught in the Adelaide CBD at the
Adelaide College of Arts
,
TAFE SA Adelaide city campus
and
Flinders city campus
with some electives offered online or at Bedford Park. View the
Study Program
for more information.
Core topics are taught in the Adelaide CBD at the
Adelaide College of Arts
,
TAFE SA Adelaide city campus
and
Flinders city campus
with some electives offered online or at Bedford Park. View the
Study Program
for more information.
Why study Costume Design at Flinders
Study a degree that enables you to focus on both costume design and production
Combine study at Flinders and TAFE SA to develop a comprehensive blend of theoretical and practical knowledge and skills
Work on real-life performances and gain experience in production settings
Access dedicated workshop spaces to design and construct your costumes
Connect with other creative artists to get a taste of real-life collaboration in the industry
Your career
Flinders graduates include award-winning actors, animators, directors, cinematographers, editors, producers and writers. Your diverse range of skills and portfolio of creative achievements will make you attractive to a wide range of employers in the arts and communication industries internationally.
Potential occupations include:
costume designer
costume buyer
costume maker
wardrobe manager
costume technician.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
Beginning work on your practical skills in costume making and design while developing academic skills through the core topic in academic and professional communication.
The opportunity to choose one from a range of option topics available in creative arts, drama, and screen.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
Developing practical skills in costume making and design while undertaking a range of topics in drama; art, culture and the history of fashion and costume; and digital process for garment design.
Undertaking a patternmaking, design and construction project and a creative arts practicum/project.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
Developing more advanced practical skills in costume making and design, study a topic in textiles theory and practice, and undertake a range of advanced design, patternmaking and garment construction projects, and a creative arts practicum project.
The opportunity to choose two from a range of option topics available in creative arts, drama, and screen.
View study program
Practical experience
Access dedicated workshop teaching spaces, work on real-life performances, learn to address issues in costume design and construction, and build an impressive portfolio for a career in your chosen field.
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas with a student exchange program.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
98.10
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
77.63
82.13
Lowest rank to receive an offer
51.20
60.05
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
58
23%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
28
11%
Work and life experience
23
9%
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
94
38%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
36
15%
International Students
<5
<5
All students
247
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
234721 (Adelaide CBD)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Don't fulfil the entry requirements? Not to worry. Flinders offers several VET pathway options for Costume Design.
Explore Costume Design VET pathway options
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, another Flinders degree you might want to include in your list is the
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Fashion)
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check the entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online.
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
Additional entry requirements
You will start in your TAFE qualification and upon completing the equivalent of a Certificate III or Diploma, for example, will have your University offer confirmed.
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Study Costume Design at Flinders
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 01 Oct 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS