Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-international-relations-political-science-honours


Study
Courses
Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science (Honours)
Study International Relations and Political Science at Flinders
You can shape the world.  Broaden your career options with research skills as well as the skills to drive political, social and policy change.
Develop a grounding in research and analysis, enhance your professional and interpersonal competencies and expand your career options with a four-year combined honours degree in international relations and political science. Take the next step on your path to become an expert in a specialist field of study and enhance your understanding of the key political, international and policy ideas and trends of our time. Lead the next generation of political influencers through research and a comprehensive understanding in politics and contemporary international politics.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
70.00
Guaranteed selection rank
75.00
TAFElink
Diploma or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
244271 (Bedford Park) 284501 (City)
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Online: No
Duration
4 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $16,320
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
60
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
102682J
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Duration
4 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $33,900
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
244271 (Bedford Park)
284501 (City)
Why study International Relations and Political Science at Flinders
Study with SA’s largest group of international relations and political science experts
Experience unique internship opportunities with the US Congress (Washington) and Consulate (Melbourne)
Gain access to South Australian Parliamentary internships and other internship opportunities in the public and private sectors.
Access travel opportunities to Indonesia, China, Japan, USA, and elsewhere
Study with a focus on the digital revolution and the future of social  and political change
Flinders policy and administration research is ranked above world standard
Flinders is engaged with The Jeff Bleich Centre for the US Alliance in Digital Technology, Security, and Governance and the Vienna Space Internship
Your career
This degree provides you with skills which are in high demand across an array of sectors. Today’s employers are seeking graduates who can anticipate, lead, analyse and influence movements within the international, political and policy arenas.
You will develop specific skills as well as enhanced general skills relevant to a vast range of jobs in government, multinational organisations, aid and foreign affairs agencies, international and local non-government organisations, civil society organisations, international and local charities, consultancy firms and business. This degree will distinguish you from graduates with bachelor degrees and ensure you standout.
Potential occupations include:
policy analyst
diplomat, public servant and/or electorate officer
international aid/development and humanitarian worker
research officer
intelligence, security, risk management or political analyst
cyber security and digital governance specialist
journalist or digital media content maker/manager
See all events
Events
Shape the world
“We want our students to move beyond a superficial understanding of the changes happening in our world in order to interrogate and think more broadly about what’s driving some of these issues and what it is we can do about them.  There is no degree like this in the rest of the country.”
Rob Manwaring, Senior Lecturer, International Relations & Political Science
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
core topics on international relations, democracy and government, public policy, and the key revolutionary ideas in political and economic thought
topics in innovation and creative thinking, and academic and professional communication
option topics focusing on political change in either Australia, Asia or the United States.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
core topics on the international political system; nationalism, populism and democracy; policy design; and visions of global order
a broad range of topics within the study of politics, public policy and international relations, looking at Australia, America, Europe and Asia.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
core topics focusing on digital governance, cyber security and the future of democracy; Australian foreign policy; and critical approaches to international relations
a professionally oriented capstone topic
option topics that include a selection of internship and placement topics to prepare students for employment, as well as topics which address themes including environmental politics, the rise of China and global inequality.
Fourth year / Honours year
A typical honours year may include:
honours-level topics in advanced theory and research application, and applied research
methods
an honours thesis comprising an independent research project supervised by one of our academic researchers
field research
internships, placements or simulated real-world challenges to develop professional competencies to ensure you thrive in future careers.
View study program
View study program (City)
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Build your international professional network with overseas study.
Gain international perspectives first-hand through international exchange links and internship opportunities.
Get practical experience through industry placements.
Meet professionals working on current international ventures.
Learn a new language by selecting language topics.
Undertake research training pathways.
Engage with foreign affairs and defence officials in learning simulations
Experience South Australian politics first-hand through the South Australian Parliamentary Internship and the South Australian Government Cabinet Office Internship.
What you will need
Prior to your industry placement, you will be required to complete and supply the following:
DCSI Screening and Background Check
National Police Clearance
Driver’s licence (required for most industry placements).
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas through internships and short-term study abroad programs including:
South Australian Parliamentary Internship
Melbourne Consulate Internship
Washington Internship Program
International Network of Universities Global Citizenship Program, Japan
New Colombo Plan opportunities in Indonesia and China and elsewhere.
Vienna Space Internship program
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.35
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
84.10
86.75
Lowest rank to receive an offer
59.00
61.80
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
<5
<5
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
26
53%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
7
14%
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
<5
<5
International Students
<5
<5
All students
49
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree
Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science/Bachelor of Laws and Legal Practice
A laws and legal practice degree from Flinders satisfies the academic and practical requirements required to practise law in South Australia. Combining these studies with a Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science (Honours) opens the door to a multitude of careers in international organisations, aid and human rights, government, transnational crime, terrorism, and non-government organisations.
Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science/Bachelor of Languages
Combining your Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science (Honours) with study of a language will open up a broader range of international study opportunities and improve your career prospects, both in Australia and overseas. Language studies also provide a greater understanding and appreciation of foreign cultures, which will further enrich your international relations and political science studies.
Other combined degree options
Expand your career options by combining this degree with one of the following:
Bachelor of Accounting
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Business
Bachelor of Business (Human Resource Management)
Bachelor of Business (International Business)
Bachelor of Business (Management)
Bachelor of Business (Marketing)
Bachelor of Criminology
Bachelor of Finance and Business Economics
Bachelor of Finance
Bachelor of Languages
Bachelor of Laws and Legal Practice
Bachelor of Laws and Legal Practice (Honours)
Bachelor of Law and Society
.
Search all combined degree options
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
244271 (Bedford Park)
284501 (City)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, another Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list is the
Bachelor of Arts
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 24 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS