Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/postgraduate-biotechnology


Study
Courses
Master of Biotechnology
Overview
From medicine to environmental protection to advances in food and agriculture production, the world needs sustainable solutions. You could help create them.
Work as a professional in one of the most exciting growth areas in science – Biotechnology.
This course covers all aspects of biotechnology, enabling you to formulate solutions to global challenges and help drive new advances in the biotechnology industry.
You will graduate with the knowledge and transferrable skills for a rewarding career in advanced manufacturing, bioinformatics, and sustainable bioproduct development and commercialisation.
You will acquire the capability to research and analyse market needs and could create the next generation of novel foods, biopolymers for applications in medicine, packaging, and safe disposables.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Courses
Master of Biotechnology
Duration:
2 years
Delivery mode:
In person
Availability:
Full-time
Part-time
Location:
Bedford Park
Start dates:
March
July
SATAC code:
2CM059
Annual indicative fees (2025):
$37,260 (Full fee paying)
Further information on fees listed
Apply via SATAC
2CM059
Courses
Master of Biotechnology
Duration:
2 years
Delivery mode:
In person
Location:
Bedford Park
Start dates:
March
July
CRICOS code:
043767G
Annual indicative fees:
2025: $42,700
What you will study

Entry requirements

How to apply

Enquire

What you will study

Entry requirements

How to apply

Enquire

Why study biotechnology at Flinders
Practical lab sessions provide hands-on training, and job-ready skills
Build opportunities for commercialisation, entrepreneurship, intellectual property, and patents in the global market
Offers research project placements within the University, Flinders Medical Centre, and the biotechnology industry
Research is fully supported by Industry
Develop transferable skills in project management including team-based problem solving, and oral and written communication skills with diverse stakeholders
Assessment is based on a combination of course work, project work, formal examination, and a dissertation
Your career
Master of Biotechnology graduates pursue careers in fields such as medicine, food production, agriculture and advanced manufacturing. Skills developed enable you to pursue career opportunities that require project management, commercialisation, and government policy development.
Potential occupations include:
Pharma/biotechnology (research assurance officer)
Production associate for novel bioactives
Medical informatics associate
Food and beverage industry
Research scientist
Trainee patent attorney
Medical sales representative
Water quality associate
Environmental consultant
Agriculture technologist
Entrepreneur-start-up business
Potential employers include:
BioCena
Bionomics
Department of Industry, Innovation and Science
CSL, DuPont, Novozymes
University research departments
CSIRO, Hospitals
SA Water
SAHMRI
SARDI
Biosensis
Clinpath
GlaxoSmithKline
CMAX (clinical trials)
Apply now
Apply now
What you will study
Theoretical scientific knowledge is complemented by relevant practical laboratory training and backed up by business training in financial, marketing and management skills. The law, ethics, society and the environment have great relevance in biotechnology and all are examined.
Core topics cover areas such as DNA to genome; protein to proteome; molecular biotechnology; legal, ethical and social aspects of bioscience; and professional skills for biotechnology. Application topics cover industrial and pharmaceutical biotechnology; environmental biotechnology; and plant and food biotechnology.
Practical experience
The Master of Biotechnology degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workplace:
Undertake research laboratory placements
Participate in one-on-one mentoring sessions with industry and biomedical research leaders
Choose to complete a nine-month research project in industry, research organisations or appropriately accredited institutions nationally
View study program
Master of Biotechnology
Industry partners
We partner with industry (multinationals and local start-up companies), government, university, and researchers with interests in biotechnology product development.
We are working with international industries that have interest in developing functional foods, proteins, and animal free fats to meet potential emerging market demands.
Some of our partners are:
Industry partners in the green manufacturing industry transformation centre: Jujube Growers Association of SA, Wonderful Capital Biotech Group, Nourish Ingredients Pvt Ltd.
Government research organisations including: CSIRO, SARDI, and FRDC
International: Manipal University, ICT Mumbai India
Our Research
Our research, conducted by an internationally renowned faculty, addresses major global problems facing humanity. More than 90% of our research was rated as “world standard” in the 2018 ERA assessment.
Research work in the second year of MBTL has impact in the following biotechnology areas:
Industrial Biotechnology; bioprocessing, biocatalysis and bioproducts
Medical Biotechnology; health and safety, product validation
Food and Agriculture Biotechnology; food sustainability, antimicrobials and marine biotechnology
Centre for Marine Bioproducts Development
Leading a new wave in marine biotechnology application, industry enhancement and environmental protection for sustainable industries of the future.
Find out more
Entry requirements
Applicants must normally hold a bachelor degree or equivalent qualification in biological, agricultural or medical science.
How to apply
1
Select your preferred course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check individual course entries on SATAC for information on important dates.
4
Apply online at SATAC.
Apply directly via SATAC
Select your preferred course and apply directly through the MySATAC application portal.
Master of Biotechnology
2CM059
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Entry requirements
Applicants must normally have completed an approved degree in a biological, agricultural or medical science at an approved tertiary institution.
English language requirements
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 10 Oct 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS