Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-creative-writing


Study
Courses
Creative writing
Choose a major in Creative Writing
Your story has just begun.
Stories are an integral part of being human. They tell our history, aspirations, ideas and emotions. With a major in Creative Writing, you’ll learn to write in a range of genres and modes, making use of different mediums and technology. You’re sure to find your voice as you develop a portfolio work—practising your new skills and receiving feedback from your peers and published, award-winning teachers. By the time you graduate, you’ll be ready for an exciting career in the arts and communication industries.
Why study Creative Writing?
Be mentored and inspired by published, award-winning writers
Explore a range of genres, and discover new strengths in different writing styles
Choose from a broad range of topics including literary studies, fiction and editing
Learn to design work for a range of audiences in relevant formats
Prepare for the workforce with highly desirable skills in communication and creative intelligence
What you will study
Literary fiction, poetry, life writing and genre fiction
Publishing and editing
Academic and professional communication
Gothic tradition and medieval myths
Literature on screen
Add Creative Writing to your degree
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts, Master of Teaching (Early Childhood)
Bachelor of Applied Geographical Information Systems
Bachelor of Education (Secondary), Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Languages
Bachelor of Arts (Enhanced Program for High Achievers)
Bachelor of Arts, Master of Teaching (Primary R-7)
Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood), Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Education (Secondary), Bachelor of Health Sciences
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of Arts, Master of Teaching (Secondary)
Bachelor of Education (Primary R-7), Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Education (Secondary), Bachelor of Special Education
How many units?
A major in Creative Writing is made up of 36 units, including:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
two Year 2 topics (9 units)
two Year 3 topics (9 units)
plus two additional topics (9 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topics.
Creative Writing can also be taken as a minor. Your 22.5 units will include:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
two Year 2 topics (9 units)
plus an additional topic (4.5 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topics.
Creative Writing is not offered as an extended major.
Add a year of Honours
Kickstart your career or future in research with one extra year.
By adding just one year full-time to your undergraduate degree, you can graduate with Honours. Enhance your career prospects, delve deeper into knowledge or launch yourself into the world of research.
Explore your honours year
Your career
Creative writing develops the creative, practical, critical and collaborative skills necessary to pursue a career in the communications, arts and related creative industries.
Potential occupations include:
freelance writer
marketing and communication
publishing copyeditor or proofreader
web content manager.
Potential employers include:
publishing companies
marketing agencies or departments
newspapers, magazines and other media production companies
education institutions
the arts industry.
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 10 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS