Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-ecology-evolutionary-biology


Study
Courses
Ecology and evolutionary biology
Choose a major in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Evolve your knowledge
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology focuses on the study of living animals, plants and fungi, how they interact, and their role in the complex ecology of life in communities. Explore your love of nature and grow your understanding of the evolution and ecology of biodiversity in Australia and around the world. How does life on Earth respond to changing conditions? How are humans impacting on the environment and what can we do to live sustainably within our ecosystems? How can you lend your knowledge to the environmental challenges of tomorrow?
Why study  Ecology and Evolutionary Biology?
Develop the skills and knowledge to help you protect the environment
Explore how the diversity of life on earth has evolved
Learn how living species interact in communities and ecosystems
Use scientific approaches to solving environmental problems
Develop laboratory and field skills in ecology
What you will study
Evolution, genetics and biological diversity
Molecular science
Ecology
Biostatistics
Chemistry, chemical structure and bonding
Experimental design
Conservation biology and restoration ecology
Palaeontology
Add Ecology and Evolutionary Biology to your degree
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of Design and Technology Innovation
Bachelor of Science
How many topics will you study?
A major in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology consists of:
22.5 units of Year 1 topics
18 units of Year 2 topics
18 units of Year 3 topics
Your career
Graduate ready to pursue a career in ecology, animal behaviour, environmental management or consulting, conservation, science writing, policy, or ecotourism.
Potential occupations include:
biologist
ecologist
environmental planner, officer or consultant
environmental education officer.
Potential employers include:
zoos and wildlife sanctuaries
environmental and conservation organisations
government bodies.
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS