Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-english


Study
Courses
English
Choose a major in English
Turn the page on your story.
Turn your love of reading and writing into a major in English. Effective communication is critical in the workplace today. English encourages a knowledge of, and enthusiasm for, literature and communications. You'll develop an understanding of our literary and linguistic heritage, and learn about how it relates to contemporary society. You'll become an adept and flexible writer and reader, with skills for any workplace.
During your studies, you'll cover the entire span of English literary history from Beowulf to contemporary non-fiction and popular literature. You will develop transferable skills and knowledge in reading, writing and interpretation.
You will be taught by award-winning teachers who love what they do and are passionate about sharing their skills. Flinders' English researchers are international experts in the fields of Medieval Studies, 18th Century Literature, the Gothic, and Life Narrative Studies, and literature for children and young adults.
Why study English?
Explore your passion for books and reading
Learn to communicate effectively across a range of mediums
Expose yourself to some of the finest words ever written, the most profound investigations of the human condition, and as a consequence become a better writer, speaker and thinker yourself
What you will study
Fiction and non-fiction, including pre-21st century and contemporary literary fiction, crime fiction, gothic fiction, literature in adaptation, and life writing
Medieval, Anglo-Saxon and early modern literature
Literature on screen
Literature and philosophy
Add English to your degree
Bachelor of Applied Geographical Information Systems
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of Arts, Master of Teaching (Secondary)
Bachelor of Education (Secondary), Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Languages
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts, Master of Teaching (Early Childhood)
Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood), Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Education (Secondary), Bachelor of Health Sciences
Bachelor of Arts (Enhanced Program for High Achievers)
Bachelor of Arts, Master of Teaching (Primary R-7)
Bachelor of Education (Primary R-7), Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Education (Secondary), Bachelor of Special Education
How many topics will you study?
A major in English is made up of 36 units, including:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
two Year 2 topics (9 units)
two Year 3 topics (9 units)
plus two additional topics (9 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topics.
English can also be taken as a minor. Your 22.5 units will include:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
two Year 2 topics (9 units)
plus an additional topic (4.5 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topics.
English is not offered as an extended major.
Add a year of Honours
Kickstart your career or future in research with one extra year.
By adding just one year full-time to your undergraduate degree, you can graduate with Honours. Enhance your career prospects, delve deeper into knowledge or launch yourself into the world of research.
Explore your honours year
Your career
Gain some of the most transferable skills on the market and explore a myriad of possible careers.
Potential occupations include:
freelance writer
publishing assistant
copywriter
editorial assistant
marketer
researcher.
Potential employers include:
education institutions
marketing agencies or departments
newspapers, magazines and other media production companies
publishing companies.
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 10 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS