Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-environmental-geology


Study
Courses
Environmental Geology
Choose a major in Environmental Geology
Dig down into environmental geology.
Environmental Geology looks at the interaction between geology or geoscience, and our living environment. You’ll explore geological and hydrogeological resources like fossil fuels, minerals and water, as well as how geological processes and hazards influence human activities (and vice versa). With a major in Environmental Geology, your future could involve seeking and monitoring safe locations for waste removal, mining and nuclear sites, or development projects.
Why study Environmental Geology?
What has occurred in the geological past of our planet will continue to occur in the future, even in our daily lives
Understand how geological processes operate and drive geological change
Explore how we can better use out natural resources and better predict and mitigate environmental degradation
Embrace your passion for nature and curiosity about our planet’s landscapes and the processes that create them
What you will study
Earth and environmental sciences
Marine sciences
Geographical information systems
Mathematics
Coastal and geological processes
Remote sensing
Ecohydrology and physical hydrogeology
Geology
Climate change
Environmental impact assessments
Add Environmental Geology to your degree
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of Design and Technology Innovation
Bachelor of Science
How many topics will you study?
A major in Environmental Geology consists of:
22.5 units of Year 1 topics
18 units of Year 2 topics
18 units of Year 3 topics.
Your career
You may find yourself working in geological surveying, natural resource management, pollution control or mining.
Potential occupations include:
environmental geologist or geoscientist
mining-related jobs
researcher.
Potential employers include:
government bodies
mining and resource corporations
natural science museums
environmental and conservation not-for-profits.
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 11 Sep 2018
FOREVER FEARLESS