Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-french


Study
Courses
French
Choose a major in French
Gain a deep understanding of French language and culture.
Study a French major and explore French language and culture. You will gain language and intercultural skills to communicate effectively across diverse social and professional contexts, and gain a deep appreciation of the Francophone world: its historical, cultural and social landscape; as well as its traditions, values, identities, and perspectives.
The team will make sure you are learning - but also having fun. You'll develop knowledge about vocabulary, grammar, and phonetics, but also dive into cultural aspects including literature, cinema, theatre and gastronomy. On completion of the French major, you could pursue roles in language teaching, translation, interpretation, business,  international relations, policy development, research and more.
There are two streams in the French major:
Beginners (for students with no knowledge of French)
Intermediate (for students with SACE or IB French)
Why study French?
French is spoken by over 300 million people across 5 continents, making it one of the most valuable languages for global communication, travel, and career opportunities
Access the rich cultures of France, Canada, Belgium, Switzerland and many other Francophone countries through literature, art, cuisine, and cinema
Explore internships, community placements, and short or long-term study abroad programs
Flourish in a supportive environment, with teachers who will help you reach your language potential through a scaffolded curriculum and small class environments
Learn from experts who specialise in applied linguistics.
Your career
This major equips you with advanced French language skills, and in-depth knowledge of many aspects of French and francophone cultures.
Develop advanced analytical and critical thinking abilities - essential for roles in language research and policy-making - and become an ambassador for French language and culture in your future workplace.
You will be prepared for careers in primary or secondary education (with further qualifications in Education), but also for a range of careers where language and culture proficiency is beneficial. Additionally, skills in French language and culture make graduates suitable for positions not only in Australia but all over the world.
Potential occupations include:
Teacher
Translator / interpreter
Linguistic researcher
Language policy advisor
Language consultant
ESL (English as a Second Language) teacher
Foreign language intelligence analyst
Potential employers include:
Education providers
NGOs
Department of Foreign Affairs
Research institutions
What you will study
This major includes wide variety of engaging topics.
Besides the French language itself, you will explore:
French cinema
French & francophone literature
French gastronomy
French cultural icons.
Study options
Study this major in the following degrees:
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science / Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Languages
Bachelor of Languages / Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science
Bachelor of Laws - Legal Practice Entry / Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Laws (Honours) - Legal Practice Entry / Bachelor of Arts
Diploma in Language
How many units?
This major caters for Beginners and Intermediate (post-secondary) students. It is comprised of 36 units, including:
Two Year 1 topics (9 units)
Two Year 2 topics (9 units)
Two Year 3 topics (9 units)
Plus two additional topics (9 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topics.
French can also be taken as a minor for Beginners and Intermediate (post-secondary) students. Your 18 units will include:
Two Year 1 topics (9 units)
Two Year 2 topics (9 units).
Add a year of Honours
Kickstart your career or future in research with one extra year.
By adding just one year full-time to your undergraduate degree, you can graduate with Honours. Enhance your career prospects, delve deeper into knowledge or launch yourself into the world of research.
Explore your honours year
Meet the experts
Associate Professor Christèle Maizonniaux
Christèle Maizonniaux is an Associate Professor in French in the College of Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences. Her research interests include children’s and youth literature for language teaching and learning/ language technologies and AI/French scientific explorations in Australia.
Learn More
Professor Eric Bouvet
Professor Eric Bouvet is French-born and passionate about languages. In Australia, he has taught French at all levels, and currently teaches language and culture at Upper Intermediate and Advanced levels. He has published in the applied linguistics, specifically in the area of language learning strategies which he integrates into his classroom practice.
Learn More
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 17 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS