Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-ocean-climate-sciences


Study
Courses
Ocean and climate sciences
Choose a major in Ocean and Climate Sciences
Study the natural environment.
Gain a deep understanding of the physical and biogeochemical factors shaping the marine environment and influencing climate. With a major in Ocean and Climate Sciences, you will learn about key physical processes that create and maintain the creation of marine life and you will study the basics of climate science at a level that enables you to understand the causes and consequences of global warming.
Why study Ocean and Climate Sciences?
Make a difference to our environment
Explore your passion for the natural sciences
Contribute to scientific progress
Learn about how the natural environment functions
Pursue a postgraduate career as a natural scientist
What you will study
Marine sciences
Environmental sciences
Coasts and oceans
Climate science
Marine biology
Geographical Information Systems
Remote sensing
Earth fluid modelling
Mathematics and professional numeracy
Add Ocean and Climate Sciences to your degree
Bachelor of Science
Bachelor of Design and Technology Innovation
Bachelor of Arts and Science
How many topics will you study?
A major in Ocean and Climate Sciences consists of:
36 units of Year 1 topics
36 units of Year 2 topics
36 units of Year 3 topics
Your career
You’ll graduate ready for a career in aquaculture and environmental protection, conservation, management or consulting.
Potential occupations include:
scientific assistant
scientific researcher
coastal and estuary officer
ocean modeller
marine planning project officer.
Potential employers include:
government institutions or agencies
meteorological departments and other environmental departments
universities.
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS