Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-politics


Study
Courses
Politics
Choose a major in Politics
Lead with a difference.
Studying politics is more than just voting in elections or debates in parliament — it is the study of people, power and society. It determines how we live and work, solve challenges and shape the future, and touches on every part of our lives: from education to jobs, from housing to immigration, from health to global relationships. Politics keeps the peace and thrusts us into war.
With a major in Politics, you can tailor your topics to your interests - whether you’re fascinated by the rise of China, or aspire to pursue social causes in Australian parliament. Since our political landscapes are constantly shifting, there is always more to know.
Real experience.
At Flinders, there are exciting internship opportunities available in both South Australian local government and the South Australian Parliament, as well as a range of global opportunities.
Why study Politics?
Understand Australian politics in a global context
Apply your political knowledge to how you vote and understand political situations around you
Make a difference in social issues you care about
Explore your passion for politics and government
What you will study
Democracy and government
Political ideas and policy
Business, society and digital change
Parties, voting and elections
Cultures and Indigenous Politics
Foreign policy
Politics of outer space
Global politics
Environmental politics
Human rights and welfare
National and international security
Governance
Add Politics to your degree
Bachelor of Applied Geographical Information Systems
Bachelor of Arts
How many units?
A major in Politics is made up of 36 units, including:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
two Year 2 topics (9 units)
two Year 3 topics (9 units)
plus two additional topics (9 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topics.
Politics can also be taken as a minor. Your 22.5 units will include:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
two Year 2 topics (9 units)
plus an additional topic (4.5 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topics.
You may complete an extended major in Politics by completing the prescribed major topics (36 units), plus an additional two topics (9 units) from Year 2 or Year 3. The extended major is not available in the Bachelor of Education/Bachelor of Arts degrees.
Add a year of Honours
Kickstart your career or future in research with one extra year.
By adding just one year full-time to your undergraduate degree, you can graduate with Honours. Enhance your career prospects, delve deeper into knowledge or launch yourself into the world of research.
Explore your honours year
Your career
Becoming a member of parliament isn’t the only path for politics graduates.
Potential occupations include:
policy officer
policy analyst
diplomat
politician
political researcher, writer or analyst
public affairs consultant.
Potential employers include:
local, state and federal government
think tanks
lobbying organisations
not-for-profits
global organisations.
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 25 Jul 2023
FOREVER FEARLESS