Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-psychology


Study
Courses
Psychology
Choose a major in Psychology
Think about what you study. Study what you think.
Are you fascinated by how people think? Psychology is the study of human behaviour and experience. It considers how we learn and develop during our lives, our relationships with other people, individual differences such as personality and self-esteem, thinking processes, the role of biological factors in how we behave, and the causes and treatment of psychological problems. Draw on the real-world experience of our staff, who consult for judges and lawyers, medical practitioners, psychologists and government at state and national levels. Psychology is always diverse and interesting, and can lead to many different career paths.
Why study Psychology?
Connect your knowledge of psychology with real-world problems
Qualify to study honours
Learn from energetic and experienced mentors, many of whom have won local and national teaching awards
At Flinders there are over 20 psychology research laboratories exploring topics like body image, criminal justice, sleep and eating disorders, trauma, ageing and decision making
What you will study
Cognition and learning
Personality and social psychology
Human and lifespan development
The mind, brain and behaviour
Forensic psychology
Clinical psychology
Research methods
Add Psychology to your degree
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts (Enhanced Program for High Achievers)
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Inherent requirements for undergraduate psychology courses
Flinders University and the College of Education, Psychology and Social Work (CEPSW) strongly support the right of all people to pursue an undergraduate psychology course.
Inherent requirements are the essential components of a course or unit that demonstrate the abilities, knowledge and skills to achieve the core learning outcomes of the course or unit, while preserving the academic integrity of the University's learning, assessment and accreditation processes. The inherent requirements are the abilities, knowledge and skills needed to complete the course that must be met by all students.
Inherent requirements
How many topics will you study?
A major in Psychology is made up of 49.5 units, including:
three Year 1 topics (9 units)
four Year 2 topics (9 units)
four Year 3 topics (9 units).
Psychology can also be taken as a minor. Your 22.5 units will include:
three Year 1 topics (9 units)
four Year 3 topics (9 units).
Add a year of Honours
Kickstart your career or future in research with one extra year.
By adding just one year full-time to your undergraduate degree, you can graduate with Honours. Enhance your career prospects, delve deeper into knowledge or launch yourself into the world of research.
Explore your honours year
Your career
Studying Psychology could lead you to health, counselling, social policy and welfare, human resources, and market research.
Potential occupations include:
community rehabilitation worker
disability employment consultant
graduate HR consultant
research assistant
transition worker.
Potential employers include:
community health providers
consulting firms
government agencies
hospitals
market research companies
research centres and rehabilitation facilities.
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 10 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS