Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-sociology


Study
Courses
Sociology
Choose a major in Sociology
Understand your society.
Sociology explores how living in a society shapes and is shaped by people’s actions and how they understand themselves, other people, and their world. Issues that might at first seem to be personal or private are linked to wider social forces such as social class, gender, race, or religion. Identifying and understanding these connections gives sociologists powerful tools to advocate for social change and social justice across an array of contexts including the media, popular culture, health and illness, families, crime and deviance, workplaces, and social policy.
Why study Sociology?
Link personal and local issues to a larger social context
Identify the structures and processes that shape our social world
Develop your research skills
Deepen your understanding of social and cultural issues in the contemporary world
Advocate for social change
Build transferable skills that prepare you for a range of workplaces
What you will study
Sociology in everyday life
Contemporary social problems
Love, death and power
Work and organisations
Deviance, crime and the law
Race, power and identity
Intimacy, families and relationships
Myth, ideology and utopia
Gender and sexuality
Social policy, economics and globalisation
Research methods and ethics
Add Sociology to your degree
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts, Master of Teaching (Early Childhood)
Bachelor of Applied Geographical Information Systems
Bachelor of Arts (Enhanced Program for High Achievers)
Bachelor of Arts, Master of Teaching (Primary R-7)
Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood), Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of Behavioural Science (Psychology)
Bachelor of Education (Primary R-7), Bachelor of Arts
How many units?
A major in sociology is made up of 36 units, including:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
two Year 2 topics (9 units)
two Year 3 topics (9 units)
plus two additional topics (9 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topics.
Sociology can also be taken as a minor. Your 22.5 units will include:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
two Year 2 topics (9 units)
plus an additional topic (4.5 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topics.
Undertake an extended major by completing the sociology major (36 units), plus an additional two topics (9 units) from Year 2 or Year 3. The extended major is not available if you’re enrolled in a Bachelor of Education/Bachelor of Arts degree.
Add a year of Honours
Kickstart your career or future in research with one extra year.
By adding just one year full-time to your undergraduate degree, you can graduate with Honours. Enhance your career prospects, delve deeper into knowledge or launch yourself into the world of research.
Explore your honours year
Your career
Studying sociology can lead to work in all levels of government, business and community.
Potential occupations include:
policy researchers, developers and analysts
consumer/social researchers
community development and liaison officers
journalists and social commentators
human resource officers
managers.
Potential employers include:
local, state and federal government
community and not-for-profit organisations
private businesses.
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 10 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS