Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-teaching-english-speakers-other-languages-tesol


Study
Courses
TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages)
Choose a major in TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages)
Boost your career and travel the world with a specialist area.
English is the most important global language, or
lingua franca, of today
. It is the must-know language for anyone aspiring to build a career in business, science, medicine, communications, or the academic world.  There are million learning English in countries across the globe.
Studying TESOL means increasing your understanding of how English works in a wide range of personal, social and professional settings. It also provides you with a sound theoretical foundation and a range of practical skills that will allow you to teach the language effectively in different settings and cultural environments.
With TESOL, you’ll learn how to teach English using contemporary knowledge, skills, principles and tools for second language learning, teaching and assessment. The teaching major will also explore issues such as the relationship between languages, cultures and societies; the acquisition of second and foreign languages; the teaching and learning of languages; language policy; and cross-cultural communication.
Why study TESOL?
Develop the ability to teach English as a second/foreign language
Gain a broad knowledge of linguistics and language
Bridge the language and communication gaps between people across cultures
Understand how to help people develop language and communication skills
What you will study
Fundamental Concepts of Second Language Learning and Teaching in TESOL
Language Assessment in TESOL
English Linguistics in TESOL
Curriculum Development and Teaching Practice in TESOL
Principles of Teaching and Learning in TESOL
Discourse and Media
Your career
With the internationalisation of the job market, graduates with a qualification in English language teaching will have greater employment opportunities.
Add TESOL to your degree
Bachelor of Languages
Bachelor of Education (Secondary), Bachelor of Languages
Bachelor of Languages, Master of Teaching (Secondary)
How many topics will you study?
A major in TESOL is made up of 36 units, including:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
two Year 2 topics (9 units)
two Year 3 topics (9 units)
plus two additional topics (9 units) from Year 2 or Year 3 topics.
A teaching major in TESOL is made up of 27 units, including:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
two Year 2 topics (9 units)
two Year 3 topics (9 units)
TESOL can also be taken as a minor. Your 22.5 units will include:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
two Year 2 topics (9 units)
plus an additional topic (4.5 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topics.
Postgraduate study
TESOL can also be studied as a postgraduate degree, with options of study that range from 18 to 72 units of study. Students also have the option to complete a research project in TESOL at the postgraduate level. Please refer to the TESOL postgraduate program for details.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 10 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS