Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-visual-arts


Study
Courses
Visual arts
Overview
Your future is a creative space.
Explore your creativity across a range of exciting mediums. You could explore digital media, photography, printmaking, and ceramics. With a major in Visual Arts, you'll discover the visual arts through the study of art history, visual language, concept development, and design.
In the Arts stream, you'll prepare for a future as an artist or working in the visual arts industry. You'll learn from practising artists as you develop practical skills alongside theory. Unleash your imagination as you discover new ways to create, and think about, visual art.
Why study Visual Arts?
Extend your talent and knowledge of art
Develop an appreciation of creativity and visual thinking
Learn to express conceptual aesthetic qualities that are both contemporary and traditional
Build an understanding of social and cultural contexts of visual arts
Develop a portfolio of creative work that demonstrates your technical and conceptual skills, creativity and passion.
Your career
Prepare yourself for a range of career opportunities in visual arts, craft or related fields.
Potential occupations include:
Artist
Photographer
Illustrator
Advertising Coordinator
Graphic Designer
Arts Administrator
Arts Writer / Critic or critic
Art Dealer
Historian
Curator
Potential employers include:
Galleries and studios
Museums
Festivals
Design and retail companies
Schools and education providers
Tourism and retail sectors.
What you will study
You'll explore a range of engaging topics.
Art history and theory
Design fundamentals
Contemporary issues in visual arts
Printmaking — plus ceramics, jewellery and photography if you choose to study the Bachelor of Arts
Study options
Study this major in the following degrees:
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science / Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Laws - Legal Practice Entry / Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Laws (Honours) - Legal Practice Entry / Bachelor of Arts
How many units?
A major in Visual Arts is comprised of 36 units, including:
Two Year 1 topics (9 units)
Two Year 2 topics (9 units)
Four Year 2 / Year 3 topics (18 units)
Visual Arts can also be taken as a minor. Your 18 units will include:
Two Year 1 topics (9 units)
Two Year 2 / Year 3 topics (9 units)
Add a year of Honours
Kickstart your career or future in research with one extra year.
By adding just one year full-time to your undergraduate degree, you can graduate with Honours. Enhance your career prospects, delve deeper into knowledge or launch yourself into the world of research.
Explore your honours year
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 22 Oct 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS