Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-womens-studies


Study
Courses
Women's and gender studies
Choose a major in Women's and Gender Studies
Exploring gender, identity and power.
How do sex and gender influence the way we experience the world? How has this changed and what can we expect from the future? With a major in Women’s Studies, you’ll explore how gender shapes our cultural and social institutions, personal identity, and relationships using interdisciplinary knowledge. You don’t need to identify as a feminist or be a woman, but you do need to be interested in the female experience and what it means to be a woman—or a man, or any other gender. Women’s Studies explores new and challenging ideas. It tackles contemporary issues, including domestic violence, rape culture, pay gaps, harassment, racism, homophobia and transphobia, body image, memory and national identity. You’ll explore gender in different contexts (e.g. locally and internationally, and across cultures) and as it intersects with other social differences (e.g. race, class and sexuality).
Why study Women's and Gender Studies?
Make sense of the world around you
Explore the way your life is shaped by gender, sex and identity
Work towards a more equal and just society
Draw from a range of areas of study, including history, sociology, politics and law
You don’t need to identify as a woman or a feminist to benefit from Women’s Studies
What you will study
Sex and gender
Power and change
Race, racism and Indigenous knowledge
Media, politics and policy
Feminism and masculinity
Sexism and reproduction
Rights, justice and the law
Intersectional approaches to political, social and cultural issues
Add Women's and Gender Studies to your degree
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of Behavioural Science (Psychology)
Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood), Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts (Enhanced Program for High Achievers)
Bachelor of Arts, Master of Teaching (Early Childhood)
Bachelor of Applied Geographical Information Systems
Bachelor of Education (Primary R-7), Bachelor of Arts
How many units?
A major in Women’s and Gender Studies is made up of 36 units, including:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
two Year 2 topics (9 units)
two Year 3 topics (9 units)
plus two additional topics (9 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topics.
Women’s Studies can also be taken as a minor. Your 22.5 units will include:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
plus three upper level topics (13.5 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3.
You may undertake an extended major sequence in Women’s Studies by completing the 36 units of a major, plus two topics from the Year 2 or 3 topics. An extended major is not available to students enrolled in the double Bachelor of Education/Bachelor of Arts.
Add a year of Honours
Kickstart your career or future in research with one extra year.
By adding just one year full-time to your undergraduate degree, you can graduate with Honours. Enhance your career prospects, delve deeper into knowledge or launch yourself into the world of research.
Explore your honours year
Your career
You’ll be ready to work in environments that specialise in gender or women’s issues, or social justice more generally. You could find yourself in international development programs, non-government organisations, the public service, foreign affairs, journalism and teaching.
Potential occupations include:
gender mainstreaming specialist
women’s project coordinator
fundraising program officer
international development officer
human rights advocate
women's rights advocate
arts and media creator
community development worker
health care worker
women's services worker.
Potential employers include:
government departments
non-government organisations
international development consultancies
organisations and private sector industries with a gender equality or equal opportunity policy and strategy
media outlets and arts organisations
schools and universities.
Tahlia Giblett
Bachelor of Arts (Women's and Gender Studies / History)
“
This major provides a more analytical approach to politics and the history of gender studies. It provides a critique of the systems and institutions in society, helping to give a voice to the most marginalised people.
Flinders helped me to do a double degree; the different minors and majors are unlike anything I thought I could do. The location is ideal too as I don’t live near the city."
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 10 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS