Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/ancient-mediterranean-near-eastern-studies/

Ancient Mediterranean and Near Eastern Studies
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Learn about the culture, history, and mythology of the ancient Mediterranean world, explore world religions in a comparative context, and investigate the history and material culture of the ancient Near East and ancient Egypt.
Why this program?
Feel welcomed in a friendly department with small class sizes and outstanding teaching faculty
Explore the full complexity and scope of human civilizations in and around the ancient Mediterranean and Near East with interdisciplinary courses and the opportunity to study ancient languages.
Get involved with archaeological fieldwork in the Mediterranean.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Tailor your own program based on your own unique interests and goals. Interested in literature? With a Bachelor of Arts specialization in Ancient Mediterranean and Near Eastern Studies, you can study biblical, ancient Greek, Roman, and Near Eastern literature all at once, increasing both the breadth and depth of your knowledge of textual and literary analysis.
Or, if you’re more interested in material culture and have your sights set on a career in archaeology, you can take a range of courses in the art and architecture of the entire ancient Mediterranean and Near East. Perhaps your interests cover language, art, history, and religion. You have the opportunity to design a program that combines all of these and more.
Send details
Why this program?
Feel welcomed in a friendly department with small class sizes and outstanding teaching faculty
Explore the full complexity and scope of human civilizations in and around the ancient Mediterranean and Near East with interdisciplinary courses and the opportunity to study ancient languages.
Get involved with archaeological fieldwork in the Mediterranean.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
AMNE 170 - Temples, Tombs, and Tyrants: The Archaeology of the Middle East, Greece, and Rome
The rise of civilizations, cultural interconnections, and power dynamics in the ancient Middle East (including Egypt), Greece, and Rome (10,000 BCE - 300 CE). Archaeological methods and interpretation, and analysis of ancient artifacts in UBC collections.
LATN 101 - Beginning Latin I
Classical Latin, Part I.
AMNE 160 - Jewish, Christian, and Muslim Religious Traditions
An overview of the foundational texts, histories, and contemporary expressions of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. Key concepts and approaches used in the study of religion.
AMNE 151 - Greek and Roman Mythology
Greek and Roman mythology and its interpretation. Emphasis on ancient texts read in English translation.
GREK 101 - Beginning Ancient Greek I
Classical and Hellenistic Greek, Part I.
AMNE 225 - Gladiators, Games, and Spectacle in the Greek and Roman World
History, development, and social function of various forms of spectacle in ancient Greece and Rome, from the Olympic games to the Roman arena.
AMNE 251 - Near Eastern and Biblical Mythology
An introduction to the world of Near Eastern mythology, from the Gilgamesh Epic to the Book of Genesis and beyond.
HEBR 201 - Intermediate Biblical Hebrew I
Biblical Hebrew. Devised to enrich vocabulary and grammar and enhance fluency in reading and interpreting a range of biblical texts.
AMNE 200 - Approaching the Ancient Mediterranean & Near East
Orientation to the peoples, places, and traditions of the ancient Mediterranean and Near East, and to analyzing different forms of source material (historical, literary, archaeological) from different perspectives.
AMNE 235 - Greek Philosophy I
The Pre-Socratics; Socrates; Sophists; Plato. Recommended as preparation for AMNE  236/PHIL 212 and PHIL 310.
AMNE 381 - Theories of Myth
Origins, nature, and transmission of myth in the Western tradition, with particular attention devoted to the interpretation of myth from ancient times up to the present. Some background in myth is recommended.
AMNE 391 - Introduction to Middle Egyptian
Language of Ancient Egypt and the main literary texts composed during the Middle Kingdom.
AMNE 327 - The Roman Army
Rome's military from the early Republic to the Imperial period. Topics range from those of a military nature such as equipment and strategy to social topics such as policing and marriage of soldiers.
AMNE 341 - Sex, Lies, and Violence in the Hebrew Bible
An exploration of the Bible's "dark side," with emphasis on texts that center on sex, deceit, and murder.
AMNE 420 - Seminar in Ancient Mediterranean and Near Eastern History and Culture
Selected topics in the history and culture of the ancient Mediterranean, Near East and/or Egypt, with an emphasis on research. A maximum of 12 credits will be granted for AMNE 420 and CLST 401. Students should consult the AMNE Undergraduate Advisor before registering.
LATN 401 - Latin Prose
Studies in history, oratory and/or philosophy. May be repeated for up to 12 credits.
AMNE 461 - Seminar in Biblical Studies
Selected topics in biblical and related texts. A maximum of 6 credits will be granted for AMNE 461 or RELG 475. Students should consult the AMNE Undergraduate Advisor before registering.
AMNE 470 - Seminar in Ancient Mediterranean and Near Eastern Archaeology
Selected topics in the art, archaeology and/or architecture of the ancient Mediterranean, Near East and/or Egypt, with an emphasis on research. A maximum of 12 credits will be granted for AMNE 470 and CLST 403. Students should consult the AMNE Undergraduate Advisor before registering.
GREK 402 - Greek Verse
Studies in epic, tragedy and/or comedy.
View larger image
Buchanan Building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Learn from faculty from all over the world at UBC's beautiful Vancouver campus. UBC’s superb library collections put fascinating research opportunities at your fingertips. You can visit and even conduct research on the collection of Classical and Near Eastern artefacts at the Museum of Anthropology. The department also has a modern computer lab available for students interested in conducting research in digital humanities.
Find out more
Your future
Graduates emerge with training in a wide variety of skill sets in demand by today’s employers – from critical thinking and communication to cutting-edge digital technologies for recording and analyzing ancient sites and objects. In the 2014 alumni survey, 81% of Ancient Mediterranean and Near Eastern Studies alumni said their degree contributed to their career development. Graduates include lawyers, teachers, business analysts, archivists, communications professionals, and academics.
Program graduates
Legal counsel, VanCity Credit Union
Asset management supervisor, Financial Conduct Authority (UK)
Grant writer and development consultant, Grant Writer Etc.
Curator, Vancouver Maritime Museum
Associate academic advisor, University of British Columbia
Assistant professor, Princeton University
Executive director, Vancouver International Dance Festival
Senior policy consultant, Ontario Ministry of Health
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Michael Richards, a professor who helped uncover the last known group of hunter-gatherers in Central Europe
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC