Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/anthropology-vancouver/

Anthropology
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Examine processes of social and cultural life in human societies past and present, near and far. Anthropology will prepare you for a diverse range of careers, including medical researcher, consultant to governmental and community organizations, teacher, archaeologist, environmental researcher, and much else.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Anthropology is a comparative study of the cultural and social lives of humans all over the world, from First Nations in Canada to the indigenous and non-indigenous peoples of Asia, the Pacific, and Latin America. You can take courses in Archaeology, Biological Anthropology, Cultural/Social Anthropology, Anthropological Linguistics, and Museum Studies.
Classes offer you a wide variety of topics covering major developments in human societies – from those of our earlier ancestors to contemporary cultures. You can select a Major, Minor, or Honours program in Anthropology.
Campus features
UBC’s Museum of Anthropology is one of the world’s premier institutions in the field, and the most advanced ethnological and archaeological research facility in Canada.
Museum of Anthropology
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
ANTH 100 - Introduction to Cultural Anthropology
Basic concepts and methods of anthropology; culture and race; comparative study of social systems, religion, symbolism, art, and other institutions. Examples are drawn from a variety of cultures.
ARCL 103 - Introduction to Archaeology
Survey of world archaeology, from the emergence of humankind to the beginning of state societies.
ARCL 140 - Bones: The Origins of Humanity
The origin and evolution of the human lineage and the emergence of human biological and cultural traits with emphasis on the fossil record before the Pleistocene.
ANTH 210 - Eating Culture
An anthropological exploration of how the collection, cultivation and consumption of food shapes human society and culture.
ANTH 221 - Contemporary Indigenous Cultural Expressions
Forms and styles of indigenous expressive arts, and their current place in the lives of Indigenous Peoples.
ANTH 215 - Japanese Popular Culture
Television shows, dramas, movies, advertising, marketing, manga (Japanese style "comics"), anime (Japanese animation), theatrical forms, popular literature, popular music, fashion fads, tourism, toys, and sports.
ARCL 228 - Forensic Anthropology
The application of methods from biological anthropology and archaeology to the identification, recovery, and analysis of skeletal remains from crime scenes, mass disasters, and unexplained deaths.
ARCL 204 - Great Archaeological Discoveries
An examination of some momentous discoveries in archaeology that have shaped our knowledge of the ancient world and the history of humanity.
ANTH 308 - Ethnography of Sub-Saharan Africa
An exploration of ethnographic, topical, and theoretical issues.
ANTH 333 - Language and Power
A sociolinguistic examination of the role of language in articulating, maintaining, and subverting power relations in society.
ARCL 305 - Archaeological Interpretation
Current theoretical developments explored through the practice of archaeology. Examples drawn from a range of times and places focusing on emerging technologies, food production, colonial encounters and culture contact, materiality and symbolic systems, social inequality and complexity, and human-environmental interactions.
ARCL 318 - Archaeology of Hunter-Gatherer-Forager-Societies
Early hunter-gatherer-forager societies, spanning the period from the emergence of the first tool-using hominins to the origins of agriculture.
ANTH 417 - Language, Culture, and Cognition
The relationships between linguistic and cultural phenomena; how language affects normative and cognitive systems of thought and behaviour.
ANTH 422 - Modes of Subsistence
The nature of subsistence systems antedating or alternative to modern commercial systems. Introductory survey with basic readings; focus on problems such as the development of complex cultures without agriculture, the ambiguity of hunting and gathering, agricultural and other "intensification", "orchestration" of the use of adjacent microenvironments. Of interest to students of archaeology, anthropology and cultural geography.
ARCL 406 - Analytical Techniques in Archaeology
A survey of methods and techniques in the interpretation of archaeological data; practical experience in processing and analyzing archaeological materials by means of a research project. Students will prepare manuscripts, drawings and photographs for publication and will learn the basics of lithic and faunal analyses.
ANTH 400 - History of Anthropology
The development of anthropological theory and practice in institutional contexts.
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
There are a number of exciting careers that your studies in Anthropology might open up for you. Find out what you can do with your
Anthropology major
.
UBC stories
"Each course that I took allowed me to expand and develop my capacities and eventually I became an expert in my field of research."
Sarah Youngblutt, Anthropology and Asian Area Studies
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Meet Laura, a Centennial Leaders Entrance Award winner who came to UBC by way of Langara
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC