Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/applied-animal-biology/

Applied Animal Biology
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Study the fundamentals of animal behaviour, animal physiology, and examine related fields as they apply to farm, companion, and other animals. You’ll learn about the role of animals in human society and the ethical, environmental, and other issues that arise, and receive training that primes you for graduate work, or admission to veterinary or human medicine.
Why this program?
Study real-world biological issues, problems, and challenges and their solutions.
Gain practical, in-the-field experience.
Receive training in research skills for graduate work.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Degree:
Bachelor of Science in Applied Biology
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
As a student in Applied Animal Biology, you’ll explore the field of animal science as you apply your knowledge to real-world biological issues through hands-on field work and research on farms, as well as in laboratories, animal shelters, and wildlife rehabilitation centres. The program offers the flexibility to focus on your specific interests, while equipping you with the knowledge and skills you’ll need to pursue a career in this fast-growing field.
The program prepares eligible students for admission to the four-year veterinary program at the Western College of Veterinary Medicine (WCVM). International students seeking to pursue veterinary studies should note that Canada’s five accredited veterinary colleges have limited admission intake, and generally apply restrictions for entry, based on residence in Canadian provinces.
Experiential learning and research
You’ll have a chance to integrate your classroom learning with real-world experience through internships, practicum, and co-op placements.
Applied Animal Biology Practicum
This practicum was designed to give students the opportunity to gain real-world skills that are transferable to a wide range of jobs working with animals. Previous practicums have included placements at the Vancouver Aquarium, BC SPCA, the Wildlife Rescue Association, farms and other animal shelters, and rehabilitation centres.
Career mentorship and directed studies are other options to extend your learning.
Campus features
You’ll have the opportunity to complete research at the Dairy Education and Research Centre, which provides educational opportunities and training for Canadians and international scientists and students from universities, colleges, schools, and industries, as well as for the general public. You’ll engage with graduate students from UBC and institutions around the world to exchange knowledge and learn from experts in the field.
Dairy Education and Research Centre
Send details
Why this program?
Study real-world biological issues, problems, and challenges and their solutions.
Gain practical, in-the-field experience.
Receive training in research skills for graduate work.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
BIOL 112 - Biology of the Cell
The principles of cellular and molecular biology using bacterial and eukaryotic examples.
CHEM 121 - Structure and Bonding in Chemistry
Fundamentals of bonding theories and structural chemistry, with applications relevant to modern society.
LFS 150 - Scholarly Writing and Argumentation in Land and Food Systems
Communicating concepts of food systems and links to human and environmental health through writing, elements of argumentation, evaluating evidence, and searching for and citing references to back up claims; small-class experience. Enrolment limited to LFS students with first year status.
PHYS 131 - Energy and Waves (Lecture)
Fluids, harmonic oscillator, travelling waves, standing waves, sound, and interference of light waves, including diffraction.
BIOL 201 - Introduction to Biochemistry
Biological molecules, protein structure and enzyme action, energy transfer, central metabolic pathways and their regulation. Examples drawn from plants, animals and microorganisms. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section of the Calendar.)
APBI 214 - Animal Sheltering and Companion Animal Support Services
History, philosophy, and current practices of animal shelters and companion animal support services, with a focus on emerging issues from a One Health/One Welfare perspective.
LFS 250 - Land, Food and Community I: Introduction to Food Systems and Sustainability
Managed systems and concepts of sustainability; economic, ecological and social components; managed landscapes, agri-food systems, and communities; urban and rural systems; the land, food, nutrition and human health continuum.
BIOL 205 - Comparative Invertebrate Zoology
An introduction to the unity, diversity and evolutionary history of invertebrates.
APBI 314 - Animals and Society
Contemporary use of animals for food production, companionship, recreation and science; social and ethical issues concerning human impacts on animals; animals in human culture; protection of animals by society and the law.
APBI 315 - Animal Welfare and the Ethics of Animal Use
Scientific assessment of animal well-being, ethical concepts applied to animal use, and animal welfare issues arising in agriculture, biomedical research and other areas.
APBI 398 - Research Methods in Applied Biology
Research methods including research design, scientific critique, writing proposals and reports, and oral presentation.
APBI 312 - Reproductive and Digestive Physiology
Reproductive and digestive physiology, and current technologies applied to these systems in domestic and wild animals.
APBI 410 - Applied Animal Health and Physiology
Application of physiology and pathology principles to health and disease of domestic animals.
APBI 413 - Stress and Coping in Animals
Understanding, assessing, and managing stress in farm, companion, captive wildlife, and research animals: sources of stress; behavioural, emotional, cognitive, and physiological responses; effects on growth, reproduction, health.
APBI 414 - Animals and Global Issues
Research seminar integrating diverse information to address global animal issues including: animal-source foods and human health, environmental impact of livestock production, trade in exotic animals.
APBI 416 - Compassionate Conservation
Evaluation of humane treatment of individual animals living in the wild and managed within conservation biology. Assessment of attitudes and viewpoints of the role of animal welfare in conservation biology.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
View larger image
H.R. MacMillan Building on UBC's Vancouver campus
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Learn from world-renowned professors recognized for their research and contribution to the field of animal welfare. As a student here, you’ll have access to flexible programs that allow you to choose a pathway that best meets your needs, academic goals, and interests, while studying with a small cohort of students.
Find out more
Your future
Many Applied Animal Biology graduates go on to careers in veterinary medicine, human medicine, biology, natural resource planning, ecology, agronomy, conservation, land management, organic farming, ecosystem restoration, biodiversity, and more.
UBC stories
“In my third year I was a field research assistant in northern BC. We lived in camper vans, caught sapsuckers, took DNA samples and released them back into the wild. It was an incredible experience.”
Afnan A., Alumni
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Applied Biology
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Social Studies
Visit program website
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC