Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/archaeology/

Archaeology
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Learn about world archaeology – from the emergence of humankind to the beginning of state societies – and examine the beginnings of the economic, social, political, and artistic traditions and systems of the great civilizations. You can pursue studies in archaeology by tailoring your course selection to include an archaeological focus and selecting a specialization in Anthropology or Classical, Near Eastern, and Religious Studies.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Archaeology courses in the Department of Anthropology explore the archaeological past of British Columbia, subarctic Canada, Mesoamerica, eastern Asia, east Africa, and Europe while emphasizing current methods, theory, and practice of archaeological research. Although not a degree program in itself, the concentration allows students to explore the subject as a focus of their studies towards a BA in Anthropology.
Campus features
UBC is active in a broad program of archaeological projects in Mesoamerica, Europe, and the Middle East.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
ARCL 103 - Introduction to Archaeology
Survey of world archaeology, from the emergence of humankind to the beginning of state societies.
ANTH 100 - Introduction to Cultural Anthropology
Basic concepts and methods of anthropology; culture and race; comparative study of social systems, religion, symbolism, art, and other institutions. Examples are drawn from a variety of cultures.
ARCL 140 - Bones: The Origins of Humanity
The origin and evolution of the human lineage and the emergence of human biological and cultural traits with emphasis on the fossil record before the Pleistocene.
ARCL 203 - Archaeological Methods
Introduces the methods and principles applied in anthropological archaeology and cultural-historical research.
HIST 205 - Introduction to Historical Archaeology
An introduction to the study of medieval and modern material culture, with special emphasis on Canada, using archaeological evidence to illustrate the principles, aims, and techniques of historical archaeology and related disciplines.
CLST 204 - Gods, Graves, and Goods: The Archaeology of Ancient Greece and Rome
A survey of the material cultures of the pre-classical and classical civilizations of Greece and Rome, illustrating the principles and techniques used to illuminate the archaeological history of these civilizations.
EOSC 220 - Introductory Mineralogy
Introduction to crystallography, physical and chemical properties of minerals. Recognition and identification of common minerals.
ARCL 322 - Archaeological Foundations of East and Southeast Asia
Survey of the archaeology of East and Southeast Asia, with an emphasis on the beginnings of the economic, social, political, and artistic traditions and systems of the great civilizations, and the conditions in which they arose. Theories of cultural development emphasizing Neolithic and state-level societies will be discussed.
ARCL 323 - Archaeological Foundations of Mesoamerica
The archaeology of Mexico and Central America with an emphasis on the emergence of economic, social, political, and religious organization. Seminar format discussing recent research and current discoveries.
RELG 306 - Archaeology and the Bible
The impact of archaeological research on understanding the history and religion of ancient Israel.
CLST 331 - Greek Art and Architecture
An introduction to the visual culture of the ancient Greek world in the second and first millennia BCE, especially from c. 1000 to 30 BCE.
ARCL 405 - Archaeological and Anthropological Mapping
Current methods in mapping spatial information in archaeology and related subfields of anthropology.
ANTH 451 - Conservation of Organic Materials
Conservation of organic materials within a museum environment; the nature of materials, mechanisms of deterioration and principles of preventive conservation. Recommended for students intending to work with cultural materials.
CNRS 410 - The Archaeology of Ancient Cyprus
An overview of the archaeology of ancient Cyprus from the island's initial colonization in the 10th millennium BCE through the period of its rule as part of the Roman Empire (4th century CE).
CLST 501 - Topography and Monuments of Athens
A study of the topography and monuments of ancient Athens from the Bronze Age to Late Antiquity. Offered in the first term of alternate years.
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Meet Michael Richards, a professor who helped uncover the last known group of hunter-gatherers in Central Europe
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC