Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/architecture/

Architecture
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Visit program website
The Master of Architecture is a professional graduate degree, leading to certification with the Canadian Architectural Certification Board. It is a highly demanding three-year program that includes design studios alongside courses in history and theory, technical and material systems, and design media.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
School of Architecture and Landscape Architecture
Degree:
Master of Architecture
Length
3 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Architecture is a highly demanding course of study, leading to the Master of Architecture graduate degree. A complete, accredited curriculum, it provides Canadian Architectural Certification Board (CACB) approved professional standing. This standing is equivalent to the US National Architectural Accreditation Board (NAAB). International students should determine certification requirements in the country of their intended practice. The School enjoys significant links within the local professional design community and a healthy engagement with cultural concerns worldwide.
Campus features
University resources include a research library ranked among the best in Canada.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
ARCH 500 - Architectural Design Studio I
A series of projects focusing on conceptual development, design synthesis, principles of typology, organization and representation.
ARCH 502 - Introductory Workshop
Commences in August the two weeks prior to Labour Day. Enrolment mandatory for all incoming students. A non-refundable fee will charged to cover expenses.
ARCH 504 - Topics in Architectural History I (Pre-1900)
History of architecture in the pre-1900 time period. Technological, political, social, and economic changes that have influenced architecture and related fields.
ARCH 512 - Structures I
Quantitative and qualitative means for understanding of statics, materials and flow of force through a structure.
ARCH 515 - Design Media I
Foundations of manual and digital skills and concepts employing a variety of subjects, techniques and software.
ARCH 513 - Environmental Systems and Controls I
Building form and fabric considerations to assure appropriate thermal, luminous, sonic, and atmospheric conditions within buildings.
ARCH 520 - Architectural Design Studio III
ARCH 531 - Architectural Technology II
Analysis and design of advanced assemblies. Integration of multiple building systems within a wide range of construction types, and more complex enclosures in a variety of climatic conditions. Emphasis on technical performance, durability and sustainability.
ARCH 523 - Contemporary Theories in Architecture
Theoretical propositions and their built manifestations.
ARCH 568 - Research Methods
Contemporary concerns and issues associated with research in architecture and landscape architecture.
ARCH 540 - Architectural Design Studio V
ARCH 548 - Graduate Project Part I
Preparation of a graduation design project including literature review.
ARCH 561 - Seminar: History and Theory
Topics across a range of history/theory-based subject matter.
ARCH 541 - Professional Practice
Ethical, legal and business context of professional practice, including contracts, project management.
ARCH 549 - Graduate Project Part II
Design component, completion, and defense of the graduation design project.
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Preparatory programs
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Joseph, a Civil Engineering student who used co-op to gain experience and try out career paths
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC