Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/asian-area-studies/

Asian Area Studies
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Gain a deeper understanding of Asian cultures while you study history, literary and religious traditions, languages, as well as gender relations. You’ll choose from diverse courses such as “Asian Horror Cinema: National Nightmares and Specters of Trauma,” “The Sikhs: History, Religion and Society,” and “Classical Hindu, Buddhist and Jain Myths and Legends in Translation.”
Why this program?
Learn more about China, Canada’s second-largest trading partner, and India, which will soon make up almost half the world’s GDP and one-third of its population.
Study at UBC's Asian Library, which has the largest collection of Asian materials in Canada.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Asian Studies uses multi- and inter-disciplinary approaches to study Asian societies and cultures, past and present. UBC’s Department of Asian Studies focuses on approaches to Asia based in the Humanities (language, literature, history, culture, religion, philosophy, gender studies, performance, visual culture) and features strong coverage of East Asia (China, Japan, Korea) and South and West Asia (India, Pakistan, and the Persianate world). It is one of the leading programs of its kind in the world. You can learn Mandarin Chinese, Classical Chinese, Japanese, Classical Japanese, Korean, Cantonese, Punjabi, Hindi-Urdu, Sanskrit, or Persian.
Graduates will value diversity and command a valuable and rare combination of Asia-relevant linguistic and inter-cultural competencies. Graduates become able to contribute to Canada’s evolving relationship with Asia in informed, original, and culturally appropriate ways.
Experiential learning and research
Asian Studies majors are strongly urged to broaden and deepen their engagement with Asia by participating in a Go Global-sponsored study abroad experience, taking Asia-related courses in other Faculty of Arts departments, enrolling in the Arts Co-op and Internship Programs, as well as taking advantage of the many alumni, lecture, and other events sponsored by the department.
Campus features
The Asian Library has the largest collection of Asian materials in Canada. Its holdings include the Puban collection of over 45,000 books and unpublished manuscripts and a serial collection of nearly 1,000 Chinese periodicals and newspapers. Among the library’s treasures is the oldest book in the UBC Library system, published in China in 986 AD. The collection also includes a 50,000-volume Indic languages collection with materials in Sanskrit, Hindi, Punjabi, Urdu, Bengali, Marathi, Tamil, and Gujarati.
UBC Asian Library
Send details
Why this program?
Learn more about China, Canada’s second-largest trading partner, and India, which will soon make up almost half the world’s GDP and one-third of its population.
Study at UBC's Asian Library, which has the largest collection of Asian materials in Canada.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
ASIA 100 - Introduction to Traditional Asia
A survey of the histories and cultures of Asia before 1600 and the coming of the Europeans. Emphasis will be given to parallel themes in the development of the civilizations of South, Southeast and East Asia.
ASIA 101 - Introduction to Modern Asia
A survey of the emergence of modern Asia. Aims at an understanding of how the various peoples of Asia have maintained distinctive cultural identities despite centuries of political, economic, social and cultural change.
ASIA 110 - Introduction to the Major Eastern Religions
Introduction to the major Asian religious traditions (Islam, Hinduism, Sikhism, Jainism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Daoism, Christianity, Shintoism, and Shamanism); employs theoretical models drawn from religious studies.
ASIA 208 - Cultural Foundations of South Asia
A survey of South Asian cultures, including language and literature, art, religion, polity and society, as they developed in the past and have been transformed in the modern period.
ASIA 250 - Introduction to Buddhism
Origins, basic teachings, development of Theravada, Mahayana, and Tantric traditions, historical spread first through Asia and later the world, and Buddhism in contemporary societies.
ASIA 254 - Sex, Gender, and Sexuality in Japanese Literature and Film
The integral role that sex, gender, and sexuality play in literary and cinematic works from Japan. Literary works will be read in translation, movies will be subtitled.
ASIA 270 - China in World History
The history of China in a global context, from the earliest times to the most recent past; how China has changed the world and how engagement with the world has changed China.
ASIA 304 - Survey of South and Southeast Asian Performing Arts
An historical perspective of the performing arts of South and Southeast Asia, highlighting the role of music, dance, and the dramatic arts in the lives of actors and audiences.  Option to complete a practicum performance.
ASIA 311 - Tibetan Buddhism
Religious terrain of the Tibetan cultural realm, looking at the history and development of Tibetan Buddhism and key ideas of the four main Tibetan Buddhist traditions.
ASIA 326 - Critical Approaches to Manga and Anime
A critical introduction to Japanese manga and anime in the 20th and 21st centuries.
ASIA 327 - Korean Popular Music in Context
History, contexts, and the genres of Korean popular music. Students will analyze specific artists and songs using a range of approaches. While an understanding of basic concepts of music will be helpful, no previous exposure to ethnomusicology or music performance is required.
ASIA 394 - Post-Revolutionary Iranian Cinema
Gender politics, family relationships, and women's social, economic, and political roles in post-revolutionary Iran as shown through Iranian cinema.
ASIA 410 - International Relations in Premodern East Asia
International relations, particularly between Korea and Japan in the premodern East Asian context, focusing on migration, trade, diplomacy, war, collective memory, mutual perceptions, and the context of the Sinocentric international order.
ASIA 451 - Modern Chinese Authors in Translation
Study of one influential modern Chinese author, such as Lu Xun, Shen Congwen, Eileen Chang, Yu Hua, Mo Yan, or Wang Anyi.
ASIA 455 - Adaptations of Japanese Classics
Introduction to literary, stage, and film adaptations of Japanese classics and legends and the ways in which these "new" works appropriate the past to comment on the present.
ASIA 475 - Documenting Punjabi Canada
Exploration of the history of the Punjabi Canadian community through traditional text-based methods and oral history collection (in English or Punjabi).
ASIA 495 - Folk Cultures in the Asian Diaspora
The mediation of folklore (e.g. slang, songs, games, dance, foodways) in the everyday lives of immigrant and transnational Asian communities. Emphasis on Asian-Canadian folklore in Greater Vancouver through digital documentary media production and archival folklore research.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
View larger image
Asian Centre
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
UBC has nearly 60 full-time teaching faculty members that specialize in the literature, religion, thought, and history of East and South Asia and offer instruction in Asian languages such as Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Persian, Punjabi, and more.
Find out more
Your future
As an Asian Studies graduate you will have a first-hand appreciation of linguistic and cultural difference, and a critically informed understanding of one or more cultures and civilizations of South or East Asia. These assets, along with strong research, writing, and critical thinking skills, set you up for other graduate and professional degrees; work in the Foreign Service, Canada Border Service Agency, and other branches of government; serve in NGOs and not-for-profit organizations; work as translators and interpreters in a variety of contexts; and employment in diverse educational, cultural, and media institutions.
Program graduates
Research analyst, Asia Pacific Foundation of Canada
Sales Associate, Nishimoto Trading Co.
Job developer, Neil Squire Society
Coordinator/translator, Waterproof Studios
Freelance Japanese-to-English translator
Associate account strategist, Google
UBC stories
"Each course that I took allowed me to expand and develop my capacities and eventually I became an expert in my field of research."
Sarah Youngblutt, Anthropology and Asian Area Studies
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Michael Richards, a professor who helped uncover the last known group of hunter-gatherers in Central Europe
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC