Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/astronomy/

Astronomy
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Astronomers and physicists study the material world and the energy that drives it, from the smallest particles like neutrinos and Higgs bosons to the very largest structures in the universe, and ultimately the universe itself. This program has a large overlap with mathematics, chemistry, biology, and engineering and can be approached from each of these angles.
Why this program?
Study at one of the top physics departments in Canada with an outstanding international reputation.
UBC is one of the few universities in the world offering an undergraduate degree in astronomy.
Pursue graduate work in astronomy, physics, or astrophysics.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Astronomy is often considered a sub-field of physics in which principles of physics and mathematics are used to investigate the fundamental nature of the universe and its evolution; the properties of galaxies; and the birth, evolution, and death of stars and black holes.
Astronomers apply this knowledge to solve problems in navigation, space flight, and satellite communications, as well as to develop the instrumentation and techniques used to observe and collect astronomical data.
Astronomy is available at the undergraduate level as a major, or as a combined honours in Physics and Astronomy, which is strongly suggested for students wishing to pursue graduate studies in astronomy and a career in research.
Campus features
UBC has a very significant research program in astronomy and astrophysics, with several faculty globally acknowledged to be at the leading edge of cosmology research. UBC operates the Large Zenith telescope, the largest liquid mercury telescope in the world, located in one of UBC’s regional forests.
Research program in Astronomy and Astrophysics
Experiential learning and research
First-year physics classes are taught using the flipped-classroom model to ensure that you receive individualized help, even in larger lectures. The Department of Physics and Astronomy has a strong Outreach Program that helps run events such as the UBC Physics Olympics, the Michael Smith Challenge, and the Canadian Physics Olympiad.
Send details
Why this program?
Study at one of the top physics departments in Canada with an outstanding international reputation.
UBC is one of the few universities in the world offering an undergraduate degree in astronomy.
Pursue graduate work in astronomy, physics, or astrophysics.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
CHEM 121 - Structure and Bonding in Chemistry
Fundamentals of bonding theories and structural chemistry, with applications relevant to modern society.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
PHYS 117 - Dynamics and Waves
Kinematics including curvilinear motion. Forces and Newton's laws of motion. Work-energy theorem, conservation of energy. Conservation of momentum, collisions. Torque, rotational dynamics, angular momentum. Oscillations and waves. Please consult the Faculty of Science credit exclusion list: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
PHYS 118 - Electricity, Light and Radiation
Optics, electricity and magnetism, electric circuits, radioactivity, including biological applications. Please consult the Faculty of Science credit exclusion list: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
PHYS 119 - Experimental Physics Lab
Introductory laboratory course, with emphasis on data collection, data analysis techniques, and scientific reasoning. Please consult the Faculty of Science credit exclusion list: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
ASTR 200 - Frontiers of Astrophysics
Stellar masses and evolution. White dwarfs, neutron stars, and black holes. Extrasolar planet formation and detection. Dark matter in the Milky Way and other galaxies. Cosmological observations and principles.
ASTR 205 - Stars and Stellar Populations
Measurement of positions, motions, and distances in astronomy.  Temperature, masses, and spectra of stars.  Hertzsprung-Russell diagram.  Quantitative stellar structure and evolution.  Chemical composition of stars in different Galactic populations. Globular and open star clusters.
MATH 221 - Matrix Algebra
Systems of linear equations, operations on matrices, determinants, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, diagonalization of symmetric matrices.
PHYS 200 - Relativity and Quanta
Special relativity: Lorentz transformation, dynamics and conservation laws. Quantum physics: the experimental evidence for quantization; a qualitative discussion of the concepts of quantum mechanics and their application to simple systems of atoms and nuclei.
PHYS 210 - Introduction to Computational Physics
Introduction to UNIX/Linux; software tools for processing, fitting and displaying data; numerical methods and application in the physical sciences.
ASTR 300 - Galaxies
Structure and kinematics of our galaxy. Spiral arms and dynamics of stars in spiral and elliptical galaxies. Galactic formation, evolution, dynamics, and groups. Active galaxies and quasars.
ASTR 333 - Exoplanets and Astrobiology
Observations and basic characteristics of extrasolar planets, including their formation, evolution, and potential for supporting life.
ASTR 349 - Directed Research Project in Astronomy
A research project, undertaken under the direction of a faculty member, culminating in a written report.  Requires approval of the course instructor and program advisor in the Department of Physics and Astronomy.
PHYS 408 - Optics
Principles and applications of optical physics. Interference, diffraction, coherence, polarization, Fresnel relations, optical coatings, waves in dielectric media, Gaussian beams, waveguides, optical cavities, lasers, fibre optics, and Fourier optics.
MATH 316 - Elementary Differential Equations II
Power series methods (ordinary and regular singular points, Bessel's equation); boundary value problems and separation of variables (Fourier series and other orthogonal series), applications to the vibrating string, heat flow, potentials.
ASTR 406 - High-Energy Astrophysics
Radiative processes. White dwarfs, neutron stars, and black holes. Accreting systems. Gamma-ray bursts.
ASTR 407 - Planetary Science
Structure of planetary systems, planetary interiors, planet formation, planetary atmospheres, meteoritics, impact cratering.
ASTR 404 - Astronomical and Astrophysical Measurements
Astronomical instrumentation and techniques for ground and space-based observations. Theory of measurement, imaging, interferometry and spectroscopy of electromagnetic radiation at optical, radio, infrared, and X-ray wavelengths. Astronomical data analysis.
ASTR 405 - Astronomical Laboratory
Experiments in the use of astronomical instrumentation and data analysis. Use of the 40-cm reflector, spectrograph and electronic detectors. Photometric and spectroscopic analysis of digital data.
PHYS 403 - Statistical Mechanics
Principles and applications of  statistical mechanics. Ideal gases, degenerate Fermi gases, Bose-Einstein condensation, black body radiation, fluctuations and phase transitions.
Follow this program
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Hennings Building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
The Department of Physics and Astronomy is housed in the historic Hennings Building, which opened in 1947. Laboratories are generally hosted in the teaching and demo rooms of the Hebb Building and Theatre, which recently underwent renovations.
Find out more
Your future
A BSc in astronomy allows opens the door to a number of graduate programs in various physical sciences, or to professional schools such as medicine, law, or education.
Graduates from the astronomy program also have a range of career options as technical support personnel in observatories and astronomy educators, or as outreach experts at science centres and planetariums.
Program graduates
System Engineer, UrtheCast
Astrophysicist and scientific software developer, UBC Atlas Group
MSc candidate in astronomy, University of British Columbia
PhD candidate in mechanical engineering, University of British Columbia
UBC stories
"My goal is to get a PhD after my master's. I'd love to work with NASA or just do research for a while, but I’d also like to do academia eventually. Dr. Matthews has given me so many opportunities, and established contacts for me with scientists around the world. I’d like to 'send the elevator back down' and be able to do that for my own students one day."
Michelle Kunimoto, Astronomy and Physics
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry, and
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Meet Robin, an astronomy student who doesn't leave learning in the classroom
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC