Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/atmospheric-science/

Atmospheric Science
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Atmospheric Science is the study of weather and climate. This highly interdisciplinary specialization focuses on meteorological fields including air quality, environment, climate change, weather monitoring & instrumentation, and consulting.
Why this program?
The program offers strong connections to Environment Canada, and is housed at one of the world’s top-ranked universities in environmental sciences.
Small class sizes in upper-year courses ensure that students get individual attention.
Project-based learning emphasizes hands-on labs in biometeorology, urban meteorology, weather instruments, and atmospheric chemistry.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Atmospheric Science is the study of weather and climate. The undergraduate specialization is highly interdisciplinary with a focus on numerical problem solving/computation, the atmospheric boundary layer, and physical climatology.
Courses focus on meteorological fields including air quality, environment, climate change, weather monitoring and instrumentation, and consulting. The program has deemphasized traditional weather forecasting to reflect changing industry demands.
The program’s strong emphasis on computation equips students with the computation and mathematical knowledge for data analysis and atmospheric modelling. The program’s interdisciplinary nature emphasis the integration of meteorological knowledge with issues such as air quality, environmental sustainability, and renewable energy.
Atmospheric Science has integrated modern pedagogical practices into its curriculum such as flipped classrooms, just-in-time-teaching (JiTT) and two-phase exams.
Campus features
Undergraduates in this specialization make use of many modern facilities. The Earth Sciences Building includes a weather-instrument platform for research and teaching, modern labs for oceanographic research, wet labs, and two PC classrooms. There are extensive hands-on labs and equipment to introduce students to biometeorology, micrometeorology, urban meteorology, weather instruments (including LIDAR), and atmospheric chemistry. Data from second climate station at Totem field is used regularly.
The Pacific Museum of the Earth includes a green screen that students use for mock TV weather briefings, a “weather lane” of displays including a tornado machine, and an OmniGlobe for display of weather and other geophysical data.
Students use Mechanical Engineering’s Aerodynamics Laboratory in the specialization’s instruments course, and the Engineering Design Center enables creative instrument development.
The Atmospheric Science faculty also owns cluster computers for numerical weather and climate simulations.
Pacific Museum of the Earth
UBC Earth Sciences Building
UBC Aerodynamics Laboratory
Send details
Why this program?
The program offers strong connections to Environment Canada, and is housed at one of the world’s top-ranked universities in environmental sciences.
Small class sizes in upper-year courses ensure that students get individual attention.
Project-based learning emphasizes hands-on labs in biometeorology, urban meteorology, weather instruments, and atmospheric chemistry.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
CHEM 121 - Structure and Bonding in Chemistry
Fundamentals of bonding theories and structural chemistry, with applications relevant to modern society.
PHYS 109 - Enriched Experimental Physics
A laboratory course accompanying PHYS 108 with emphasis on data collection and analysis and experimental techniques.
CPSC 110 - Computation, Programs, and Programming
Fundamental program and computation structures. Introductory programming skills. Computation as a tool for information processing, simulation and modeling, and interacting with the world.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
ATSC 201 - Meteorology of Storms
Characteristics and physical processes of thunderstorms, tornadoes, lightning, hail, hurricanes, blizzards, cyclones and other storms.
EOSC 211 - Computer Methods in Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences
Mathematical computer-based problem solving in the physical, chemical, and biological sciences. Problems drawn from studies of the earth, the oceans and the atmosphere.
CPSC 103 - Introduction to Systematic Program Design
Computation as a tool for systematic problem solving in non-computer-science disciplines. Introductory programming skills. Not for credit for students who have credit for, or exemption from, or are concurrently taking CPSC 110 or APSC 160. No programming experience expected.
CPSC 110 - Computation, Programs, and Programming
Fundamental program and computation structures. Introductory programming skills. Computation as a tool for information processing, simulation and modeling, and interacting with the world.
MATH 200 - Calculus III
Analytic geometry in 2 and 3 dimensions, partial and directional derivatives, chain rule, maxima and minima, second derivative test, Lagrange multipliers, multiple integrals with applications.
ATSC 301 - Atmospheric Radiation and Remote Sensing
Energy transfer at infrared, visible, and microwave wavelengths. Analysis of satellite measurements of the atmosphere and surface.
ENVR 300 - Introduction to Research in Environmental Science
Environmental research.  Students investigate research methodologies and reporting in a range of scientific disciplines and fields.
GEOB 300 - Microscale Weather and Climate
Meteorology and climatology at the micro-, local, and meso-scales. Interactions between land surfaces and atmosphere. Basics of atmospheric turbulence and transfer processes. Microclimates on scales of a leaf to those of a large valley.
CHEM 304 - Fundamentals of Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics
Principles of chemical thermodynamics; introduction to statistical mechanics; phase equilibria; electrochemistry.
ATSC 405 - Cloud Physics and Chemistry
Cloud thermodynamics, chemistry and microphysics. Computer modelling of droplet growth, convection, and mixing. Application of differential equations to atmospheric problems.
ATSC 404 - Dynamic Meteorology
Dynamic principles governing atmospheric motions on a rotating planet. Simplified mathematical models of atmospheric flow based on scale analysis. Application to synoptic-scale and general circulation of the troposphere.
ATSC 449 - Honours Project
Honours students must submit a graduating report based on a project undertaken with the approval of the Associate Chair of the Atmospheric Science Program.
ATSC 406 - Operational Meteorology
Introduction to meteorological prediction, meteorological data analysis, prognosis of weather systems, motion and development, satellite imagery, Doppler radar, numerical weather prediction, synoptic and mesoscale forecasting, applied laboratory exercises.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Earth Sciences building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Built in 2012 to LEED Gold construction standards, the Earth Sciences building is home to the Department of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences. It houses the department’s cluster computers for numerical weather and climate simulations, weather-instrument platform for research and teaching, modern labs for oceanographic research, wet labs, and two computer labs.
Find out more
Your future
A BSc in Atmospheric Sciences qualifies students for work in air quality meteorology or environmental consulting, as well as for further study in graduate programs.
Many graduates are employed as weather forecasters for government weather services, with an increasing number finding employment with weather-forecast companies that tailor forecast for agriculture, aviation, and air quality.
Program graduates
Operational meteorologist, Environment Canada
Weather specialist, BC Public Service
Consultant, Environmental Resources Management
Air quality specialist, WSP in Canada
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry, and
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Jenna, an Earth and Environmental Sciences student who chose UBC over five other universities
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC