Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/master-management-dual-degree/

Bachelor + Master of Management Dual Degree
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Pursue an undergraduate subject you’re passionate about and get a postgraduate qualification from one of the world’s most prestigious business schools. You’ll study subjects like accounting, finance, marketing, and strategic management, and get personalized professional development advice to help you turn your passion into a profession.
Why this program?
80% of program graduates in 2018 were employed within three months
Gain consulting experience with a not-for-profit organization or social enterprise through the Community Business Project
Work one-on-one with career coaches at the Hari B. Varshney Business Career Centre to fine-tune your profile and outlook
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculties:
Faculty of Arts, Faculty of Forestry, Faculty of Land and Food Systems, Faculty of Science, School of Kinesiology, School of Music, UBC Sauder School of Business
Degrees:
Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Fine Arts, Bachelor of Kinesiology, Bachelor of Media Studies, Bachelor of Music, Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Science in Applied Biology, Bachelor of Science in Food, Nutrition, and Health, Bachelor of Science in Global Resource Systems, Bachelor of Science in Wood Products Processing, Master of Management
Length
4.5 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
UBC’s innovative Bachelor and Master of Management Dual Degree program makes it possible to earn a bachelor’s degree from select non-business faculties and a Master of Management from the UBC Sauder School of Business in as little as four-and-a-half years.
As a Bachelor and Master of Management student, you’ll take business and commerce modules during each of the four years of your undergraduate degree. In the summer immediately after graduation, you’ll enter the Master of Management program full-time for six months of intensive study.
Experiential learning and research
During your time in the program’s capstone course, you’ll have the opportunity to learn directly from industry leaders, work on live case studies, and recommend real business solutions.
Campus features
As a Bachelor and Master of Management student, you’ll have access to a number of on-campus facilities, including the
David Lam Management Research Library
and the
Hari B. Varshney Business Career Centre
.
Send details
Why this program?
80% of program graduates in 2018 were employed within three months
Gain consulting experience with a not-for-profit organization or social enterprise through the Community Business Project
Work one-on-one with career coaches at the Hari B. Varshney Business Career Centre to fine-tune your profile and outlook
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
COMM 120 - Business Immersion
A broad introduction to the field of business and how the different disciplines within business interact and combine in business decision-making. For Master of Management - Dual Degree Option students only.
COMM 220 - Business Communications
An experiential course covering a broad range of business writing and communications. For Master of Management - Dual Degree Option students only.
COMM 320 - Foundations in Accounting I
Preparation of financial statements and use of financial information contained in financial statements to make better decisions. For Master of Management - Dual Degree Option students only.
COMM 321 - Organizational Behaviour
Effects of individual and group behaviour on organizational processes and outcomes. Application of relevant frameworks from the social sciences to particular organizational situations. For Master of Management - Dual Degree Option students only.
COMM 420 - Marketing
Basic considerations affecting the domestic and international marketing of goods and services. Analytical frameworks and techniques that are used to guide marketing strategy decisions. For Master of Management - Dual Degree Option students only.
COMM 421 - Introductory Finance
Introduces the basic principles of financial valuation, including the time-value of money and the risk/return tradeoff. Develops tools for the quantitative analysis of corporate and/or individual financing and saving decisions, and of capital budgeting decisions. For Master of Management - Dual Degree Option students only.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
Your future
Past Bachelor and Master of Management Dual Degree graduates have been hired by some of the world’s most innovative organizations in a wide range of industries, either related to their undergraduate backgrounds or on a new path entirely. Others have gone on to further education in dentistry, medicine, law, and other fields.
Program graduates
Manager, Operational Management, HSBC
Strategic Solutions Analyst, Marketing Automation, Traction on Demand
Medical School Student, Liberty University
Risk Consultant, Advisory Services, EY
Onboarding Specialist, Bench Accounting
JD Candidate, UBC Peter A. Allard School of Law
UBC stories
"I will definitely be proud to be a UBC alumna. It is very assuring to know that there exists a strong and global UBC alumni base who are willing to provide support and guidance."
Angela Sunario, Microbiology and Immunology + Management
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Bachelor + Master of Management
You must apply and meet the requirements for one of BA, BFA, BKin, BMS, BMus, BSc, BSc APBI, BSc FNH, BSc FRE, BSc FS, BSc GRS, BSc NRC, BSc WPP, of BSF
Additional application required to the UBC Sauder School of Business
Interview by invitation only
Related courses
Please see the subject categories for your chosen bachelor degree.
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Kai, a campus sustainability leader who's studying Science and Management
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC