Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/biochemistry-molecular-biology/

Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Investigate the world at the molecular level in biochemistry and molecular biology, the study of chemical compounds and reactions that occur in living organisms. This program includes a wide variety of foundational and advanced courses that cover metabolic pathways, the chemistry of winemaking, pharmacology, and more. Choose to specialize in biochemistry or the more medical aspects of cell and molecular biology.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Find out more
Why this program?
Learn from researchers that elucidate new metabolic pathways, studying protein structure and function, and devise new biophysical and chemical tools to study biological processes
Study on a tight-knit campus where you can work closely with professors and peers
Work as a teaching assistant, pursue your own research, or work alongside professors on theirs
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Get your UBC degree in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, which specifically deals with the structure and function of proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates and lipids – the basic constituents of living cells. You can choose from one of two program options: General Biochemistry or Medical Biochemistry.
Biochemists work to understand the structure of cells and how they function at the molecular level. They look at the role of these macromolecules in metabolic pathways, how the pathways are controlled, and the consequences of genetic or metabolic disruption. Biochemistry and Molecular Biology can lead to work in mass producing chemicals that are usually found in the body in tiny amounts, mapping the human genetic code, or creating genetically engineered crops that are more resistant to adverse weather conditions, spoilage, disease, and pests.
Experiential learning and research
The Biochemistry and Molecular Biology program includes a strong lab component, which is essential for students working in this area, and the opportunity to do a directed-studies research project with various professors in both chemistry and biology.
The Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science also supports student research through the Undergraduate Research Awards, which allow students to carry out their own projects over the summer months, and other awards, which provide opportunities to work with professors on their research.
You can connect with your peers who are interested in or studying biochemistry and molecular biology through the Biochemistry Course Union, a student organization on UBC’s Okanagan campus.
Directed-studies research project
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science Undergraduate Research Awards
Biochemistry Course Union
Chemistry research groups
Biology research groups
Send details
Why this program?
Learn from researchers that elucidate new metabolic pathways, studying protein structure and function, and devise new biophysical and chemical tools to study biological processes
Study on a tight-knit campus where you can work closely with professors and peers
Work as a teaching assistant, pursue your own research, or work alongside professors on theirs
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
BIOL 116 - Biology for Science Majors I
First of a pair of courses that introduce students to the biological concepts necessary to continue into second-year biology. Covers evolutionary theory and its underlying genetic basis, basic cell biology, plant and animal nutrition, and energy acquisition. Credit will be granted for only BIOL 116/125 or BIOL 117/122.
CHEM 121 - Atomic and Molecular Chemistry
Stoichiometry, atomic and molecular structure, chemical periodicity, gases, liquids, solids, and solutions. Required course for all students needing a first-year Chemistry course who have Chemistry 12.
BIOL 125 - Biology for Science Majors II
Continuation of BIOL 116. Introduction to biological concepts necessary for second-year biology. Physiology of reproduction, gas exchange, inter-organ transport, inter-organ coordination in plants and animals, and excretion and movement in animals. Ecosystem, population, community, and behavioural ecology are discussed.
PHYS 111 - Introductory Physics for the Physical Sciences I
Introduction to mechanics primarily for students majoring in the physical sciences (e.g. physics, chemistry, mathematics, computer science, geology, physical geography) or engineering. Particle kinematics and dynamics, work and energy, momentum, gravitation, rigid body motion, fluid statics and dynamics with applications to the physical sciences. Students with Physics 12 may apply for a tutorial exemption.
CHEM 204 - Organic Chemistry
Mechanistic analysis of chemical reactivity of common functional groups, with focus on carbonyl chemistry; aromaticity and aromatic substitution; functional group transformations in organic synthesis; carbohydrates, amino acids, proteins, heterocycles.
CHEM 211 - Analytical Chemistry
Statistical analysis and errors of measurement, method development and validation, solution equilibria as applied to analysis, analysis of acids and bases, analytical electrochemistry, chemical separation, introduction to gas and liquid chromatography.
BIOL 200 - Cell Biology
Structure and function of plant and animal cells; membrane models, cytoplasmic organelles, biological information from gene to protein, the endomembrane system, secretion, intracellular digestion, endocytosis, transport processes, cytoskeleton and cell motility.
CHEM 203 - Introduction to Organic Chemistry
Structure, bonding, and physical properties of aliphatic and aromatic compounds; conformational analysis, stereochemistry, and NMR spectroscopy; substitution and elimination reactions of alkyl halides; ethers, epoxides, aldehydes, ketones. Credit will not be granted for only one of CHEM 203 or CHEM 213.
BIOC 307 - Enology I
Chemistry and biochemistry of winemaking (enology) and grape-growing (viticulture) including development of the important major constituents of a wine; ethanol, acids, sugars, and colour; the subtle aspects of the aroma; odour-active compounds and how they form; and the effects of storing a wine in oak barrels.
BIOC 393 - Biochemistry Laboratory
Topics include protein separation, enzyme kinetics, ELISA, DNA Ligation and Transformation, PCR, RFLP analysis, Agarose gel electrophoresis, STR and VNTR analysis, and gene regulation.
BIOC 310 - Plant Chemistry
Chemical constituents of plants, their synthesis, their contribution to key metabolic processes, and the regulation of their biosynthesis. Synthesis of alkaloids, secondary metabolites, nutrients, and bioactive compounds. Discovery of new phytochemicals and human uses of plants.
BIOL 366 - Molecular Genetics
Stresses the principles of molecular biology techniques and their relevance to the study of all areas of biology. Gene expression, gene regulation, and development genetics.
BIOC 405 - Lipids and Biomembranes
Review of recent research on the structure, dynamics, and function of membranes, membrane lipids, and proteins.
BIOC 407 - The Biochemical Basis of Disease
Draws on foundational knowledge of normal biochemistry. Inborn errors of metabolism, abnormal growth and metabolism, neurodegeneration and inappropriate protein folding, deficiency diseases, endocrine disorders, and cardiovascular and hematological disorders.
BIOL 363 - Developmental Biology
Principles of animal development. Embryonic development of key invertebrates is compared to vertebrates at the morphological, genetic, and epigenetic levels. Differential gene expression and cell signaling responsible for the specification of embryonic cell fates and pattern formation will be compared in various animals.
BIOC 493 - Biotechnology Laboratory
Current methods in biotechnology will be demonstrated, including the use of biotechnological techniques and tools in such areas as molecular biology, microbiology, and biochemistry.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Aerial view of UBC's Okanagan campus
Life at UBC's Okanagan campus
UBC's Okanagan campus is renowned for its research opportunities and access to professors. On a tight-knit campus like the Okanagan’s, you’ll be able to work closely with award-winning faculty and make meaningful connections with your peers. Professors are collaborating with student researchers and community partners in a variety of industries.
Find out more
Your future
Graduates from the Biochemistry and Molecular Biology program on UBC’s Okanagan campus go on to graduate or medical school, or careers in fields such as:
Biotechnology
Food science
Pharmacology
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics is strongly recommended
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life
Read admissions blog post
Meet Suud, a Biochemistry student from a small community in Tanzania
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC