Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/biochemistry/

Biochemistry
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Biochemistry is the study of the chemical processes occurring in living matter, a discipline which encompasses an incredibly diverse field of research that touches nearly all aspects of our lives. Biochemists are working in areas as diverse environmental degradation, forensics, disease research, and archaeology.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Why this program?
Attend lectures and labs in UBC’s state-of-the-art Life Sciences Institute.
Prepare for graduate study in biochemistry, molecular biology, biophysics, or professional schools.
Gain hands-on research experience through upper-year laboratory courses.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Biochemistry is concerned with the chemical compounds and processes that occur in plants, animals, and microorganisms. Specifically, it involves the analysis of proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids, which comprise the basic constituents of cells.
This specialization equips you with a strong foundation in biochemistry while also providing the flexibility to cultivate your interests in allied fields (e.g., microbiology, food science, and chemistry). An undergraduate degree in biochemistry is particularly appropriate for students who anticipate a professional career in the health sciences or research.
Biochemistry is available at the undergraduate level as a major or honours. It can also be paired with chemistry for a combined major or combined honours degree.
Housed in the Faculty of Medicine, the program’s primary focus is on the biochemistry of the human body. Biochemistry can also be studied as an elective in biology, chemistry, microbiology and immunology, and cellular, anatomical and physiological sciences.
Campus features
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology is located in the Life Sciences Centre, a multi-disciplinary research space where more than 80 faculty investigators and approximately 600 trainees and research staff conduct innovative research in many areas of the life and biomedical sciences. The Laboratory for Molecular Biophysics has state-of-the-art instrumentation and facilities.
Laboratory for Molecular Biophysics
Experiential learning and research
The Biochemistry program champions and supports the participation of undergraduates in research and provides students the opportunity gain hands-on research experience through several upper-year laboratory courses.
Send details
Why this program?
Attend lectures and labs in UBC’s state-of-the-art Life Sciences Institute.
Prepare for graduate study in biochemistry, molecular biology, biophysics, or professional schools.
Gain hands-on research experience through upper-year laboratory courses.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
BIOL 121 - Genetics, Evolution and Ecology
Principles of storage and transmission of genetic variation; origin and evolution of species and their ecological interactions.
BIOL 140 - Laboratory Investigations in Life Science
Guided experimental investigations of biological questions.
CHEM 121 - Structure and Bonding in Chemistry
Fundamentals of bonding theories and structural chemistry, with applications relevant to modern society.
MATH 102 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Life Sciences
Functions, derivatives, optimization, growth and decay, discrete probability.
BIOC 203 - Fundamentals of Biochemistry
Amino acids and proteins. Enzymes and enzymology. Human metabolic pathways. Structure, function and metabolism of carbohydrates including glycogen storage and gluconeogenesis. Restricted to students in Biochemistry specializations.
CHEM 213 - Organic Chemistry
Spectroscopy of organic compounds.  Mechanistic analysis of chemical reactivity of common functional groups with a focus on carbon-carbon bond formation; functional group interconversion.  Preference will be given to students in Chemistry or Biochemistry specializations.
BIOC 202 - Introductory Medical Biochemistry
Introduction to proteins and enzymes, carbohydrate metabolism, and glucose homeostasis. The course emphasis is on human biochemistry and it is designed for students going into health science fields.
CHEM 211 - Introduction to Chemical Analysis
Quantitative chemical analysis; chemical and physical principles of spectrophotometry, potentiometry, and chromatography.
BIOL 200 - Fundamentals of Cell Biology
Structure and function of plant and animal cells; membrane models, cytoplasmic organelles, biological information from gene to protein, the endomembrane system, secretion, intracellular digestion, endocytosis, transport processes, cytoskeleton and cell motility.
BIOC 304 - Contemporary Biochemical Research
Exploration of the breadth and importance of biochemical research to present day challenges in medicine and biotechnology. Detailed experimental research case studies of novel biochemical methods used to address pressing and ongoing biochemical issues.
BIOC 301 - Biochemistry Laboratory
Techniques by which the chemical and physical properties of fundamental components of the cell are studied.
BIOC 302 - General Biochemistry
Metabolic reactions of lipids, steroids, amino acids and nucleotides; the biochemistry of replication, transcription and translation.
BIOC 410 - Nucleic Acids-Structure and Function
Chemical, physical and biological properties of nucleic acids and their role in replication, transcription, translation and regulation of expression of genetic material.
BIOC 421 - Recombinant DNA Techniques
Multi-week experiments involving contemporary nucleic acid research, cloning and recombinant protein engineering. Emphasis is on experimental design, critical analysis of data and scientific communication skills.  Restricted to Major students in Biochemistry.
BIOC 403 - Enzymology
Kinetic analysis, catalytic mechanisms, transition state stabilization and regulation of activity, strategies for active site characterization and case studies of well-documented enzyme systems.
BIOC 402 - Proteins: Structure and Function
Structural components of proteins, classification by primary, secondary and tertiary structure, protein chemistry and purification, peptide and protein synthesis by chemical means and three-dimensional structure determination using X-ray diffraction and NMR.
Follow this program
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Life Sciences Centre
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
The Biochemistry program is housed in the Life Sciences Centre. Constructed in 2005, the Life Sciences Centre is part of the Life Sciences Institute, which is the largest research centre on UBC’s Vancouver campus.
Find out more
Your future
A BSc in Biochemistry is a perfect stepping stool for entry into graduate programs, as well as medical, law, dental, or pharmacy school.
Students graduate with strong critical thinking, communication, and research abilities. These skills are highly sought after and are transferable to many workplaces.
Program graduates
PhD candidate in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of British Columbia
Associate attorney, Sullivan & Cromwell LLP
Dentist, Baker Hill Dental Clinic
Medical student, University of British Columbia
PhD candidate in Membrane Biology, University of Alberta
Graduate student in Biochemistry, Molecular Biology and Biophysics, University of Minnesota
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry, and
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Suud, a Biochemistry student from a small community in Tanzania
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC