Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/biomedical-engineering/

Biomedical Engineering
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Learn how to apply engineering principles and design to medicine and biology for healthcare purposes in Biomedical Engineering. You'll start by building a foundation in biomechanics and biomaterials, cellular and molecular bioengineering, biomedical systems and signals, or biomedical informatics before specializing in third year.
Why this program?
Learn the fundamentals of the emerging biomedical engineering field
Get hands-on experience through studio, laboratory, and design work
Be part of the most diverse engineering discipline at UBC
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculties:
Faculty of Applied Science (Engineering), Faculty of Medicine
Degree:
Bachelor of Applied Science (Engineering)
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
As a Biomedical Engineering student, you’ll take a series of core courses aimed at building a solid foundation in engineering, biology, math, chemistry, and design. In your third year of study, you’ll have the opportunity to customize your degree to your interests by specializing in one of four streams:
Biomechanics and biomaterials
Cellular and molecular bioengineering
Biomedical systems and signals
Biomedical informatics
The curriculum includes traditional, online, and mixed-instruction courses, plus hands-on studio, laboratory, and design work. Through these experiences, you’ll gain a strong understanding of biology, human anatomy, and physiology, and develop the skills required to apply this knowledge in engineering design contexts and solve engineering problems.
Send details
Why this program?
Learn the fundamentals of the emerging biomedical engineering field
Get hands-on experience through studio, laboratory, and design work
Be part of the most diverse engineering discipline at UBC
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
BMEG 101 - Introduction to Biomedical Engineering
Core principles of biomedical engineering from a clinical perspective. Sensors and instrumentation, bioelectric phenomenon, biosignals, physiological modelling, biomechanics, biomaterials, tissue engineering, the principles of and design for medical imaging equipment, clinical engineering, moral and ethical issues.
BMEG 102 - Biomedical Engineering Lab
Rapid prototyping of mechanical, electrical and electromechanical systems. Building parts with state of the art software and 3-D printing. Use of laboratory equipment and instrumentation.
CHEM 121 - Structure and Bonding in Chemistry
Fundamentals of bonding theories and structural chemistry, with applications relevant to modern society.
CHEM 123 - Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Organic Chemistry
Fundamentals of chemical reactivity: thermodynamics; kinetics; organic chemistry, including stereochemistry; applications relevant to modern society.
BMEG 220 - Circuits and Electromagnetics with Application to Biomedical Engineering
Electromagnetic phenomena in the  body; bioinstrumentation; electrostatic and electromagnetic fields, forces, capacitance and inductance; bio-effects of electromagnetic fields; and modelling electrical components of physiological and biomedical systems.
BMEG 230 - Biomechanics I
Integrating the study of two dimensional movement of animals and humans with the study of the manner in which forces on biomechanical structures such as bones, ligaments, tendons, muscles and joints cause motion. Techniques of solid mechanics and two dimensional rigid body dynamics.
BMEG 245 - The Fundamental Units of Life: From Cells To Systems
The structure and function of cells and how they are organized to generate tissues and organ systems
BMEG 250 - Cellular  Physiology  and Biophysics
Cellular structure and mechanisms of membrane transport, signal transduction, muscle mechanochemistry and neurotransmission. Structure and hierarchical organization up to the level of tissues. Light and electron microscopy.
BMEG 257 - Biomedical Engineering Design I
Engineering design process for medical technologies. Clinical practice, the healthcare system, medical approach to diagnosis, ethics and regulations for clinical trials, medical technology management, medical device development and standards, use of statistics for evaluating medical technologies.
BMEG 310 - Introduction to Bioinformatics
Principles behind the methods of bioinformatics. The use of bioinformatics databases and tools for solving problems in genomics, proteomics, structural biology and evolutionary biology.
BMEG 350 - Human Structure/Function from Cells to Systems
Human anatomy, histology and physiology with examples from biomedical engineering. Anatomical compartmentation and function regulation; homeostatic control systems, sensors and effectors; intercellular communication strategies; and cellular and organ function assessment.
BMEG 357 - Biomedical  Engineering Design II
Creating innovations in medical technologies. Case studies in need clinical identification. Supervised design process, building and testing prototypes with potential users.
BMEG 371 - Transport Phenomena within Cells and Tissues
Fluid flow and mass transport analysis within healthy and diseased cells and tissues using mathematics. Drug delivery and tissue engineering.
BMEG 430 - Economics of Healthcare Solutions
Canadian and USA engineering economics in BME and healthcare systems.  Economic equivalence, cost estimation, risk assessment, regulatory frameworks, economic optimization, intangible factors, ethics, sustainability, financial tools, commercialization and regulator regimes.
BMEG 456 - Clinical and Industrial Biomedical Engineering
Principles of clinical practice, Canadian healthcare system, medical approach to diagnosis, ethics and regulations for clinical trials, medical technology management, medical device development and standards, biostatistics.
BMEG 457 - Biomedical Engineering Design Project
Capstone design and development of a practical biomedical device or system. Projects provided by local industry and engineering research laboratories.
Follow this program
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Aerial view of UBC's Vancouver campus
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
As a Biomedical Engineering student, you'll have classes, teaching laboratories, capstone projects, and studio sessions in various Faculty of Applied Sciences buildings on UBC's Vancouver campus.
Find out more
Your future
As a Biomedical Engineering graduate, you can pursue a career in a wide range of fields, including:
Healthcare
Pharmaceuticals
Biotechnology
Biomedical contexts in government, non-profits, consulting, and finance.
The Biomedical Engineering program also provides an excellent foundation for graduate studies or professional degrees in medicine, engineering, pharmacy, law, or business.
UBC stories
In a general way, the best part of this program is the potential we all have to make a change in people’s lives. On a day-to-day basis, this program is great because of how close-knit everyone is. We’re all supportive of one another and have formed a community between the students, professors, and coordinators.
Nadine Truter, BASc in Biomedical Engineering
Read the full story
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Applied Science (Engineering)
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
IB Chemistry
IB Physics
Academically strong candidates missing either IB Chemistry or IB Physics may be evaluated on a case-by-case basis
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
How to choose what to study at UBC
Read admissions blog post
International arrivals: Adjusting to life at UBC
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC