Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/biophysics/

Biophysics
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Study life at every level, from atoms and molecules to cells, organisms, and environments, while you look for and analyze patterns. You’ll also gain an understanding of the basic concepts and quantitative skills of physics. This program will prepare you for graduate studies in biological sciences or physics, work as a medical professional, or a career in fields such as pharmaceuticals.
Why this program?
Study at one of the top physics departments in Canada with an outstanding international reputation.
Biophysics has a prestigious, tight-knit honours program, and small class sizes in upper-years that ensure individualized attention.
Prepare yourself for graduate studies in biological sciences or physics.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Biophysics is a cross-disciplinary field that incorporates concepts from physical and mathematical sciences with the study of biological systems. The honours Biophysics program aims to give students a strong foundational knowledge of one of the subfields in biological sciences at the senior undergraduate level – molecular and cell biology, macrobiology, or applied biology.
This specialization is specifically geared towards students intending to pursue graduate studies in the biological sciences (including medical, dental, pharmacy, or veterinary school) or physics.
Please note that Biophysics is available only as an honours degree.
Campus features
The Applied Biophysics research laboratory specializes in the development of novel tools and methods for the analysis and manipulation of biomolecules. The lab draws on specializations in Engineering, Biophysics, and Molecular Biology.
Send details
Why this program?
Study at one of the top physics departments in Canada with an outstanding international reputation.
Biophysics has a prestigious, tight-knit honours program, and small class sizes in upper-years that ensure individualized attention.
Prepare yourself for graduate studies in biological sciences or physics.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
BIOL 112 - Biology of the Cell
The principles of cellular and molecular biology using bacterial and eukaryotic examples.
PHYS 117 - Dynamics and Waves
Kinematics including curvilinear motion. Forces and Newton's laws of motion. Work-energy theorem, conservation of energy. Conservation of momentum, collisions. Torque, rotational dynamics, angular momentum. Oscillations and waves. Please consult the Faculty of Science credit exclusion list: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
CHEM 121 - Structure and Bonding in Chemistry
Fundamentals of bonding theories and structural chemistry, with applications relevant to modern society.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
PHYS 229 - Intermediate Experimental Physics II
Thermodynamics experiments, modern physics experiments and use of computers in data analysis.
MATH 215 - Elementary Differential Equations I
First-order equations; linear equations; linear systems; Laplace transforms; numerical methods; trajectory analysis of plane nonlinear systems. Applications of these topics will be emphasized.
BIOL 200 - Fundamentals of Cell Biology
Structure and function of plant and animal cells; membrane models, cytoplasmic organelles, biological information from gene to protein, the endomembrane system, secretion, intracellular digestion, endocytosis, transport processes, cytoskeleton and cell motility.
CHEM 233 - Organic Chemistry for the Biological Sciences
Reactions and properties of carbonyl compounds, carbohydrates, amino acids, nucleic acids.
BIOC 302 - General Biochemistry
Metabolic reactions of lipids, steroids, amino acids and nucleotides; the biochemistry of replication, transcription and translation.
PHYS 301 - Electricity and Magnetism
Maxwell's equations and their applications, electrical fields and potentials of static charge distributions, current, fields of moving charges, magnetic fields, electromagnetic induction.
MATH 316 - Elementary Differential Equations II
Power series methods (ordinary and regular singular points, Bessel's equation); boundary value problems and separation of variables (Fourier series and other orthogonal series), applications to the vibrating string, heat flow, potentials.
PHYS 305 - Introduction to Biophysics
Physical principles involved in biological systems at the microscopic and molecular scales. Diffusion, low Reynolds number dynamics, the physicist's view of biomolecular structure, models of molecular motors and membranes.
BIOC 403 - Enzymology
Kinetic analysis, catalytic mechanisms, transition state stabilization and regulation of activity, strategies for active site characterization and case studies of well-documented enzyme systems.
PHYS 449 - Honours Thesis
A research project, undertaken under the direction of a faculty member, culminating in a thesis.
PHYS 304 - Introduction to Quantum Mechanics
Principles and applications of quantum mechanics, wave mechanics, the Schroedinger equation, expectation values, Hermitian operators, commuting observables,  one-dimensional systems, harmonic oscillators, angular momentum, three dimensional systems, time dependent perturbations.
PHYS 474 - Applied Solid State Physics
Symmetry of crystal structures, reciprocal lattice, band theory, conduction in metals and semiconductors, phonons and superconductivity.
Follow this program
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Hennings Building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
The Department of Physics and Astronomy is housed in the historic Hennings Building, which opened in 1947. Laboratories are generally hosted in the teaching and demo rooms of the Hebb Building and Theatre, which recently underwent renovations.
Find out more
Your future
Graduates of the honours Biophysics program almost always enter graduate programs in physics or biological sciences. The rigorous, cross-disciplinary nature of the specialization makes it an ideal pathway for entry into professional schools such as medicine, pharmacy, or dental.
Program graduates
PhD candidate in Physics, Princeton University
Resident physician, Vancouver Coastal Health
Medical physics resident, Stanford Hospital & Clinics
Clinical medical biophysicist, UBC Faculty of Dentistry
Medical student, University of British Columbia
PhD candidate in Structural Biology, City University of New York
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry, and
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Nathan, and find out why his choice to attend UBC was an easy one
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC