Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/biotechnology/

Biotechnology
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Enjoy hands-on laboratory training and high-calibre foundational courses as you learn about scientific manipulation of living organisms. This program equips you with current scientific and technical expertise and the business and communication skills to start your biotechnology career as soon as you graduate.
Why this program?
Study in a rigorous, highly specialized honours program.
Complete laboratory training at BCIT.
Enhance your learning and professional development with practical experience in co-operative work placements.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
5 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Biotechnology harnesses our scientific understanding of biology and chemistry to create products, processes, or services relevant to areas such as health, energy, agriculture, and the environment.  Biotechnology applications include the design and production of vaccines, the discovery of new antibiotics, genetic engineering of tissues, the design of disease and drought resistant crops, and clean-up of environmental pollutants. The discipline uses computers to model biological structures and processes as well as analyze and compare DNA and RNA sequences. Some of the cutting-edge technologies employed in biotechnology include CRISPR Cas9 gene editing systems, mass spectrometry, and Next Generation DNA sequencing.
The Honours Bachelors of Biotechnology program is offered in cooperation with the BC Institute of Technology (BCIT). You must complete a 30-credit first-year program at UBC before transferring to BCIT for two years. Then you return to UBC for two years of academic and co-op work terms. The program spans a range of scientific disciplines including microbiology, immunology, virology, cell biology, plant biology, bioinformatics, chemistry, and statistics.  The program also provides a solid foundation in business communications, accounting, and marketing.
Campus features
You’ll take courses in the new state-of-the-art Biosciences Teaching building, the flagship Life Sciences Centre, and the Michael Smith Laboratories, the latter of which is named after the Nobel laureate and UBC professor Dr. Michael Smith.
Michael Smith Laboratories
Experiential learning and research
The Honours Biotechnology degree provides the best of two educational worlds: UBC’s leading-edge biotechnology research and teaching, and BCIT’s hands-on laboratory training and foundational courses. Laboratory and lecture components of the program are uniquely integrated through the use of an experiential approach to learning.
Send details
Why this program?
Study in a rigorous, highly specialized honours program.
Complete laboratory training at BCIT.
Enhance your learning and professional development with practical experience in co-operative work placements.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
CHEM 121 - Structure and Bonding in Chemistry
Fundamentals of bonding theories and structural chemistry, with applications relevant to modern society.
BIOL 112 - Biology of the Cell
The principles of cellular and molecular biology using bacterial and eukaryotic examples.
MATH 102 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Life Sciences
Functions, derivatives, optimization, growth and decay, discrete probability.
SCIE 113 - First-Year Seminar in Science
Small-group experience where students study science in society, scientific process, and how to communicate scientific concepts.  Enrolment limited to students with first-year standing in the B. Sc. program in Science.
BIOT 280 - Introductory Biotechnology
Block registration for the biotechnology, microbiology, physiology, communication for biotechnology, organic chemistry, information technology, plant anatomy, plant physiology and cell biology courses taken in the Joint BCIT/UBC Degree in Biotechnology.  Credit limited to students in the Joint Degree Program.
BIOT 380 - Advanced Biotechnology
Block registration for the microbiology, molecular genetics, biochemistry, management and regulatory affairs, process systems, analytical chemistry and communication courses taken in the BCIT/UBC Joint Degree in Biotechnology.  Credit limited to students in the Joint Degree Program.
MICB 306 - Molecular Virology
Introduction to virus structure and replication. Detailed examination of selected viruses including polio, HIV and cancer-causing retroviruses. Development of vaccines and anti-viral drugs, the use of virus vectors to cure genetic diseases.
MICB 408 - Advanced Bacterial Pathogenesis
Current and emerging themes in bacterial pathogenesis including cellular microbiology, bacterial cell biology processes and their role in virulence including secretion systems to deliver virulence factors and immune evasion strategies employed by pathogens.  Development of antibiotics and resistance to antibiotics.
CHBE 419 - Industrial Biotechnology Laboratory
Modern bioreactor technology, upstream and downstream processing of biotechnology products. Restricted to students in the Joint Degree in Biotechnology.
MICB 405 - Bioinformatics
Computational methods to analyze genome and protein sequences to derive structural and functional information. Related topics in functional genomics.
MICB 421 - Experimental Microbiology
Research in microbial physiology and molecular genetics.  Guided and independent laboratory projects are developed.
MICB 449 - Research Problem
A laboratory investigation in the final year of the Honours program. The results are presented in a written report, to be reviewed by oral examination.
MEDG 421 - Genetics and Cell Biology of Cancer
Molecular mechanisms of oncogenes and tumor suppressors in cancer biology, methods of and insights from studying cancer genomes, and current topics in cancer research.
Follow this program
Follow on Twitter
Your future
The Honours Biotechnology program helps you develop a strong foundation in skills relevant to the rapidly changing world of biotechnology and provides practical training in the skills and techniques of biotechnology. Co-op education is a mandatory part of the program, ensuring that you graduate with relevant work experience.
Many Honours in Biotechnology graduates go on to earn an MSc, PhD, MD, or MBA.
Program graduates
MSc candidate in Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto
Research technologist, STEMCELL Technologies
PhD candidate in Microbiology and Immunology, University of British Columbia
Research assistant, BC Cancer Agency
Medical student, UBC School of Medicine
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry, and
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Meet Nathan, and find out why his choice to attend UBC was an easy one
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC