Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/business-and-markets/

Business and Markets
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Visit program website
Business and Markets will provide training in applied economics to help you understand how market structures, business practices, and international trade impact food supply and security worldwide. The program also addresses interactions between the food sector and major environmental challenges such as climate change and biodiversity.
Why this program?
Study a combination of economics, data analysis, business, and physical sciences and graduate with a unique set of skills for the labour market.
Increase your job prospects by developing expertise in sustainable business practices and the green economy.
Benefit from a small program that encourages strong connections between students and professors who act as both instructors and mentors.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Degree:
Bachelor of Science in Food and Resource Economics
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Global hunger has increased in recent years and yet 30% of all food produced goes to waste. How can food supply chains provide more food without sacrificing the environment, especially in light of climate change? What is the impact of government policies such as carbon taxes on food market outcomes? What are the benefits and costs of various green business initiatives?
At the end of this program, you will have the economic and business skills to address such questions. You will learn how to collect and analyze data, and be able to employ economic and business models for addressing real world food challenges.
After gaining a strong core foundation in applied economics and data analytics, you will take upper-year courses in food markets, international trade, and business from FRE, the Vancouver School of Economics, and the Sauder School at UBC. This program will also provide interdisciplinary breadth, exposing you to science-based courses such as FNH 200 (Exploring our Food) and GEOB 270 (Geographic Information Science).
Experiential learning and research
Students are encouraged to use FRE 497 (Directed Studies in Food and Resource Economics) to immerse themselves in a professor-supervised research project such as the economic and environmental implications of the rapidly expanding market for palm oil.
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
In this program you’ll have access to the talents and diverse perspectives of instructors in the Food and Resource Economics (FRE) group, the Vancouver School of Economics, and the UBC Sauder School of Business. Flexible electives and opportunity are key strengths of the program.
Send details
Why this program?
Study a combination of economics, data analysis, business, and physical sciences and graduate with a unique set of skills for the labour market.
Increase your job prospects by developing expertise in sustainable business practices and the green economy.
Benefit from a small program that encourages strong connections between students and professors who act as both instructors and mentors.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
ECON 101 - Principles of Microeconomics
Introduction to consumer behaviour, producer theory, competitive market equilibrium, welfare economics, monopoly, oligopoly, and foundations of strategic interactions.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modelling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List:
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/facult…
LFS 150 - Scholarly Writing and Argumentation in Land and Food Systems
Communicating concepts of food systems and links to human and environmental health through writing, elements of argumentation, evaluating evidence, and searching for and citing references to back up claims; small-class experience. Enrolment limited to LFS students with first year status.
BIOL 121 - Genetics, Evolution and Ecology
Principles of storage and transmission of genetic variation; origin and evolution of species and their ecological interactions.
LFS 252 - Land, Food, and Community: Quantitative Data Analysis
Introduction to tools needed for data analysis of the economic, ecological, health, and scientific components of land and food systems.
ECON 255 - Understanding Globalization
Social and economic implications for both rich and poor countries of lowered barriers to the international flows of information, capital, labour and goods. May not be taken for credit by students with fourth-year standing in Bachelor of International Economics or any of the following Economics programs offered by VSE: Majors, Minors, Combined Majors, Honours.
FRE 290 - Introductory Topics in Food and Resource Economics
Analysis and interpretation of current issues in food and resource economics. Topics will vary from year to year.
FRE 306 - Introduction to Global Food Markets
An overview of global food markets including recent trends (e.g., vertical coordination, strategic alliances, multinationals and small firms in niche markets), marketing and trade institutions such as state-trading enterprises and WTO regulations, issues specific to developing nations, and case studies.
ECON 301 - Intermediate Microeconomic Analysis I
Consumer behaviour, producer theory, competitive market equilibrium, welfare economics, uncertainty, monopoly and oligopoly.
FRE 326 - Empirical Methods for Food and Resource Economics
Introduction to empirical methods with applications for problems in food and resource economics; standard linear regression and methods to address data deficiencies; interpretation of regression results for forecasting and policy analysis.
FRE 374 - Land and Resource Economics
Willingness to pay, opportunity costs, externalities, and market failures in natural resource markets; dynamic efficiency; economic applications including mineral, marine, forest, land, water, and biodiversity.
FRE 394 - Environment, Society and Government
Roles of government and business in the Canadian economy, emphasizing interactions with the environment and society, including Indigenous communities. Ethical foundations of government, business and personal decision-making.
FRE 420 - The Economics of International Trade and the Environment
Market failure and gains from trade in the presence of environmental externalities; multilateral trade and environmental agreements; case studies, including biological invasions, transport emissions, climate-induced migration, carbon leakage, ivory trade, food miles.
FRE 460 - Economics of Food Consumption
Microeconomics of consumer decisions and public policy in food contexts; foodborne illness; economic causes and consequences of obesity; sin taxes and prohibitions; information campaigns and advertising; labeling; food waste and ethics.
FRE 394 - Environment, Society and Government
Roles of government and business in the Canadian economy, emphasizing interactions with the environment and society, including Indigenous communities. Ethical foundations of government, business and personal decision-making.
ECON 455 - International Trade
International trade theory and policy in general equilibrium; relative costs, factor proportions, imperfect competition and the pattern of trade; efficiency and distribution.
Your future
An undergraduate degree in Food and Resource Economics prepares you for a wide range of jobs. Those with a major in the Business and Markets program will have opportunities to work within:
Companies which trade, process, and market food;
Agri-business financing;
Local NGOs and government departments in the areas of food and the environment.
Options for graduate study at UBC include UBC’s Masters of Food and Resource Economics (MFRE) and Master of Public Policy and Global Affairs (MPPGA) and the Masters of Business Administration (MBA). Students are also well trained to apply for graduate school in agricultural and resource economics at other universities.
Apply now