Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/business-computer-science/

Business and Computer Science
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
The Business and Computer Science combined major will give you the technical background and understanding to apply IT solutions in a business context, and use them to develop opportunities for growth. In each year of study, you'll take a combination of core commerce and computer science courses.
Why this program?
Study abroad at one of 59 partner business schools in 29 countries.
Find co-op placement opportunities through both UBC Sauder and Computer Science.
Get dedicated services and support in the Hari B. Varshney Business Career Centre to help jumpstart your career.
Within three months of graduation, 94% of BCom students find relevant employment with global firms like KPMG, L’Oréal, HSBC, and McKinsey & Company.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
UBC Sauder School of Business / Department of Computer Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Commerce
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The Business and Computer Science combined major will give you the technical background and understanding to apply IT solutions in a business context, and use them to develop opportunities for growth. In each year of study, you’ll take a combination of core commerce and computer science courses.
The Bachelor of Commerce Combined Major in Business and Computer Science is jointly offered by UBC’s Sauder School of Business and Department of Computer Science. The program is designed to meet the growing demand for graduates needing a strong foundation in Business, Information Management Systems, and Computer Science. It’s a very flexible grounding, and ideal if you’re planning to lead IT-related projects or advance to high management positions in IT-related companies.
Campus features
UBC Sauder’s state-of-the-art facilities create an ideal environment for collaborative and meaningful learning. The Canaccord Learning Commons and David Lam Management Research Library provide research and academic support services. The Wayne Deans Investment Analysis Centre and Leith Wheeler Investment Research Lab have the tools students need to access real-time financial data.
What can you do with this major after graduation?
Explore your career options
Send details
Why this program?
Study abroad at one of 59 partner business schools in 29 countries.
Find co-op placement opportunities through both UBC Sauder and Computer Science.
Get dedicated services and support in the Hari B. Varshney Business Career Centre to help jumpstart your career.
Within three months of graduation, 94% of BCom students find relevant employment with global firms like KPMG, L’Oréal, HSBC, and McKinsey & Company.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
COMM 101 - Business Fundamentals
The different disciplines of business and their combination in management planning and decision-making.
CPSC 110 - Computation, Programs, and Programming
Fundamental program and computation structures. Introductory programming skills. Computation as a tool for information processing, simulation and modeling, and interacting with the world.
CPSC 121 - Models of Computation
Physical and mathematical structures of computation.  Boolean algebra and combinations logic circuits; proof techniques; functions and sequential circuits; sets and relations; finite state machines; sequential instruction execution.
ECON 101 - Principles of Microeconomics
Elements of theory and of Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of markets and market behaviour, prices and costs, exchange and trade, competition and monopoly, distribution of income.
MATH 105 - Integral Calculus with Applications to Commerce and Social Sciences
Antiderivatives, the definite integral, techniques of integration, infinite series, partial derivatives, maxima and minima with constraints, discrete and continuous random variables.
COMM 202 - Career Fundamentals
Fundamentals of career management including effective resume and cover letter writing, performing well in interviews and learning about the recruiting cycles, networking and resources available at the Hari B. Varshney Business Career Centre.
COMM 205 - Introduction to Management Information Systems
Overview of computer technology and terminology; use of computers as managerial and administrative tools; the management of computer resources and the influence of information technology within the organization.
COMM 294 - Managerial Accounting
Introduction to the development and use of accounting information for management planning and control and the development of cost information for financial reports.
CPSC 221 - Basic Algorithms and Data Structures
Design and analysis of basic algorithms and data structures; algorithm analysis methods, searching and sorting algorithms, basic data structures, graphs and concurrency.
CPSC 210 - Software Construction
Design, development, and analysis of robust software components. Topics such as software design, computational models, data structures, debugging, and testing.
COMM 390 - Business Writing
An activity-focused course providing the opportunity to study and practice forms of writing needed in business.
COMM 394 - Government and Business
Roles of government and business in the Canadian economy including effects of public policy on the business environment. Ethical foundations of government, business and personal decision-making.
COMM 395 - Business Communications
Understanding non-written communications in day-to-day business.
CPSC 310 - Introduction to Software Engineering
Specification, design, implementation and maintenance of large, multi-module software systems. Principles, techniques, methodologies and tools for computer aided software engineering (CASE); human-computer interfaces, reactive systems, hardware-software interfaces and distributed applications.
CPSC 322 - Introduction to Artificial Intelligence
Problem-solving and planning; state/action models and graph searching. Natural language understanding Computational vision. Applications of artificial intelligence.
CPSC 444 - Advanced Methods for Human Computer Interaction
Design and evaluation methodologies and theories; formal models of the user including visual, motor, and information processing; advanced evaluation methods including laboratory experiments and field studies; HCI research frontiers.
COMM 436 - Information Systems Analysis and Design
The process of information systems development; modern techniques and tools for systems analysis and design.
COMM 438 - Management of Information Systems
Managerial issues in the administration of computerized information systems.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Henry Angus Building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
As a UBC Sauder student, you can access exceptional career support through a dedicated Business Career Centre that offers one-on-one coaching, workshops, company information sessions, industry networking events, mentorship programs, and co-op work placements.
Find out more
Your future
While at UBC Sauder School of Business, students gain a practical understanding of business while learning to be innovators, entrepreneurs, global citizens, and leaders. UBC Sauder’s ongoing career support and well-rounded course offerings allow students to stand out from the crowd in the job market and to create a lasting impact on the world. Students who have completed the combined major have gone on to careers as product directors, IT managers, user-experience designers, and data analysts. But because you’ll build a solid foundation in business, your potential career path is not limited to the information technology sector.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Commerce (UBC Sauder School of Business)
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation (will consider Chemistry and Physics in this category)
Social Studies (only Economics, Ethics, First Nations or Contemporary Indigenous Studies, Geography, Law, Psychology, and Social Studies)
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Leemor, and find out how a 'Women in Computer Science' discussion led to an internship at Microsoft
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC