Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/canadian-studies/

Canadian Studies
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
In this interdisciplinary program, you’ll explore and think critically about questions like, “What did the masses of red and white at the Vancouver 2010 Olympics mean?” “What are the politics of apology?” “Is multiculturalism successful?” “How should Canada tackle climate change?” Learn about how the environment, indigenous cultures, urban planning, sovereignty, and even maple doughnuts add up to make a country.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Canadian Studies is an interdisciplinary program, with a large range of course selection – Anthropology, Political Science, Geography, Film Studies, Sociology, and History to name just a few – taught by professors from various departments in the Faculty of Arts. You may pursue a Major in Canadian Studies or a Minor concentration that complements other Major and Honours programs within the faculty.
Campus features
The UBC Library has a number of unique Canadian and British Columbian collections including both historical and literary material. Many rare publications, manuscripts, and other documents relate to pre-Confederation history, ethnic histories, and literary figures, and there is also an extensive photographic archive.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
POLI 101 - The Government of Canada
An examination of the institutions and processes of Canadian government.
ECON 101 - Principles of Microeconomics
Elements of theory and of Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of markets and market behaviour, prices and costs, exchange and trade, competition and monopoly, distribution of income.
FREN 123 - Contemporary French Language and Literature II
Continuation of FREN 122 with emphasis on literature, essay writing and textual analysis.
ENGL 222 - Literature in Canada
The major types of Canadian writing: fiction, poetry, non-fictional prose, and drama
ANTH 220 - First Nations of British Columbia
The cultures, languages, and resources of First Nations, with anthropological perspectives on colonization and development.
HIST 235 - History of Canada: Moments that Matter
An introduction to major turning points in Canadian history.  Exploration of the social, political, cultural, and environmental transformations/revolutions that have shaped Canada from early European colonialism to the twenty-first century.
GEOG 290 - Introduction to the Geography of Canada
Selected topics in human geography focusing on the regional distribution of natural resources, population, urban systems, and economic activities.
SOCI 210 - Canadian Social Structure
Descriptive and analytic survey of such features as demographic characteristics, class structure, ethnicity, and regional variation in Canadian society as a basis for understanding current social issues.
CDST 350 - Canadian Studies
An interdisciplinary introduction to Canadian studies. Required of all Canadian Studies Majors.
SOCI 310 - Canadian Society
Social organization of Canadian society: relationships between social institutions and social processes (e.g., economics, education, family, law, media, and politics); including issues of ancestry, ethnicity, gender, region, and social class.
ARTH 343 - Art and Photography in Canada to 1920
Art, artists, and art institutions from the establishment of the French and English colonies to the founding of the Group of Seven: issues of race, wilderness, and colonial expansion.
ENGL 476 - Indigenous Studies
Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
FIST 438 - Seminar in Canadian Cinema
Topics may include an analysis of the Canadian Governmental agencies supporting Film Production.
GEOG 497 - The Arctic
Physical and biological characteristics of the circumpolar Arctic, emphasizing terrestrial environments and the impacts on and by humans, including: glacial history; climatology; biogeography/ecology of arctic tundra; human-environment interactions, settlement and exploration; and current environmental, social and economic problems.
FREN 430 - Studies in Quebecois Literature
HIST 412 - The American Impact on Canada
An examination of the influence of the United States' rise to continental, hemispheric, and world power upon Canada in the areas of economics, defence, and foreign policy.
Your future
Career opportunities vary widely across a range of fields including government, non-profit, business, law, communications, museums, the arts, tourism, education, and others.
There are many career paths that can combine your academics, skills, and experience with your different interests, including:
Indigenous affairs officer
Indigenous outreach worker
Archivist
Biographer
Charitable organization director
Communications specialist
Community programs director
Conservator
Copywriter
Cultural anthropologist
Diplomat
Careers with Canadian Studies
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life on Snapchat
Read admissions blog post
Meet Elle-Máijá, a groundbreaking filmmaker and advocate for diverse First Nations representation
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC