Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/cellular-anatomical-physiological-sciences/

Cellular, Anatomical, and Physiological Sciences
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Take courses in human structure and function with emphasis in nervous, endocrine, cardiovascular, respiratory, renal, and gastrointestinal systems while you study life processes. The overarching goal of this program is to provide interdisciplinary training in life and health sciences while preparing you for a career in academics, or biotechnology or medical fields.
Why this program?
Study in a highly selective honours program with small classes in upper years ensure you get individual attention.
Prepare for graduate studies in health sciences or for medical, dental, pharmacy, physical therapy, or veterinary medicine.
Attend lectures and labs in UBC’s state-of-the-art Life Sciences Centre.
Receive instruction from the UBC Faculty of Medicine’s world-renowned researchers.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The Honours Cellular, Anatomical, and Physiological Sciences (CAPS) program enriches a core study of physiology through a broad curriculum. You’ll study the human body structure and function, but also receive interdisciplinary training that prepares you for a wide range of careers in academic, biotechnology, or medical fields. Courses are offered in human structure and function with emphasis in nervous, endocrine, cardiovascular, respiratory, renal, and gastrointestinal systems.
Cellular, Anatomical, and Physiological Sciences is available only as an Honours degree. The program is extremely competitive, with only about 15 students admitted to the specialization each year. Students apply at the end of their second year. The specialization is specifically geared towards students intending to pursue graduate studies in the biological sciences (including medical, dental, pharmacy, or veterinary school), with the majority of graduates from the program each year entering medical school.
Campus features
The Biochemistry, Pharmacology, Physiology Club of UBC is a thriving club in the Alma Mater Society. It’s a great place for first-year students to make contacts with current undergraduate and graduate students, and get a sense of what a major in these programs is all about.
Biochemistry, Pharmacology, Physiology Club of UBC
Experiential learning and research
As a CAPS student, you’ll spend a year carrying out a research project under the supervision of a research faculty member that forms the basis of a graduating honours thesis. In addition, you may choose to do a 12-16 month cooperative education program, working in a research laboratory as part of their undergraduate training.
Send details
Why this program?
Study in a highly selective honours program with small classes in upper years ensure you get individual attention.
Prepare for graduate studies in health sciences or for medical, dental, pharmacy, physical therapy, or veterinary medicine.
Attend lectures and labs in UBC’s state-of-the-art Life Sciences Centre.
Receive instruction from the UBC Faculty of Medicine’s world-renowned researchers.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
BIOL 112 - Biology of the Cell
The principles of cellular and molecular biology using bacterial and eukaryotic examples.
CHEM 123 - Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Organic Chemistry
Fundamentals of chemical reactivity: thermodynamics; kinetics; organic chemistry, including stereochemistry; applications relevant to modern society.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
PHYS 100 - Introductory Physics
Kinematics, force, energy, momentum, use of graphs and vectors in physics; thermal energy, heat transfer, Earth's energy balance; electricity. Students with credit for Physics 12 may not obtain credit for this course unless they took AP, IB, or A-level Physics and were offered advanced credit for PHYS 100.
BIOL 121 - Genetics, Evolution and Ecology
Principles of storage and transmission of genetic variation; origin and evolution of species and their ecological interactions.
CAPS 200 - Biomedical Research: Essential Skills and Concepts
Analysis of the underlying questions and assumptions, experimental approach, results and significance of work described in selected biomedical research presentations.
CHEM 205 - Physical Chemistry
Chemical kinetics and thermodynamics and spectroscopy useful in biological, medical, agricultural, earth, and related sciences.
BIOL 200 - Fundamentals of Cell Biology
Structure and function of plant and animal cells; membrane models, cytoplasmic organelles, biological information from gene to protein, the endomembrane system, secretion, intracellular digestion, endocytosis, transport processes, cytoskeleton and cell motility.
MICB 202 - Introductory Medical Microbiology and Immunology
Introduction to cellular and humoral immune responses, the properties of viruses and the principles of bacterial pathogenesis. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section of the Calendar.)
CAPS 390 - Introduction to Microscopic Human Anatomy
Organ system development, structure and function at the microscopic level.
CAPS 303 - Laboratory in Human Physiology (Honours)
Techniques and principles of human physiology. This course must be taken in conjunction with CAPS 301. Restricted to Cellular, Anatomical and Physiological Sciences and Pharmacology Honours students.
CAPS 301 - Human Physiology
Organ systems function with particular reference to mammalian and human physiology.  See credit exclusion list: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414
BIOC 301 - Biochemistry Laboratory
Techniques by which the chemical and physical properties of fundamental components of the cell are studied.
CAPS 426 - Physiological Basis of Central Nervous System Functions
An integrated study of the structural and functional organization of the central nervous system with special emphasis on neurophysiological mechanisms.
CAPS 430 - Advanced Laboratory in Physiology
Methods, techniques, and use of instruments required for physiological investigation. CAPS 303 or PHYL 303 and the consent of the department are required and enrolment will be limited.
CAPS 421 - Advanced Cellular and Molecular Physiology
Recent advancements in cellular and molecular physiology that have revolutionized our understanding of cell function in health and disease.
CAPS 422 - Mammalian Cardiovascular and Respiratory Physiology
The control and integration of cardio-pulmonary function in mammals. Intended for Honours students in Cellular, Anatomical and Physiological Sciences or other life sciences.
Follow this program
Follow on Twitter
Your future
Program graduates frequently enter graduate programs in biological or health sciences. The rigorous, cross-disciplinary nature of the specialization makes it an ideal pathway for entry into professional schools such as medicine, pharmacy, or dental.
Program graduates
Medical student, University of British Columbia
Graduate student in Community Health and Epidemiology, Dalhousie University
Medical student, Queen's University
Research assistant, UBC Biomedical Research Centre
Master of Physical Therapy candidate, University of British Columbia
Dentist, Emerald Park Dentistry
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry, and
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Meet Raymond, a Kinesiology graduate who helps athletes keep their eyes on the prize
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC