Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/chemical-engineering/

Chemical Engineering
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Chemical Engineering fuses the physical and chemical sciences with mathematics, process engineering, design, and economics. You’ll learn how to design, build, and operate the manufacturing and industrial processes used to create the products and services essential to everyday life – from energy, food, and fertilizers to pharmaceuticals, plastics, and paper.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Applied Science (Engineering)
Degree:
Bachelor of Applied Science (Engineering)
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The program’s objective is to provide an outstanding and distinctive education in chemical engineering, through a comprehensive and progressive range of academic courses and activities that respects society’s needs. Selection of electives from a range of topics prepares chemical engineers for meaningful, satisfying and productive careers in industry, government and academia in British Columbia, Canada and other regions of the world. The Chemical Engineering degree program puts emphasis on the analysis, design, process control and operation of efficient chemical processes within resource-based industries such as oil & gas, pulp & paper, petro-chemical, polymers, inorganic chemicals and fertilizers. In addition, pollution prevention and reduction in industrial processes and systems is emphasized.
The program places emphasis on sustainable engineering in the curriculum. Sustainability principles are integrated in individual courses and in dedicated specific technical electives. In addition, the students are engaged in sustainability projects overseen by the Department’s Sustainability Club.
On completing their first year of Engineering, undergraduate students can apply to one of the two programs in the Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering:
Chemical Engineering
Chemical & Biological Engineering
Both programs are accredited and lead to a Bachelor of Applied Science (BASc) degree in their respective areas.
Graduates are eligible, after appropriate industrial experience, for registration as Professional Engineers.
Campus features
The Chemical & Biological Engineering Building is a new building with undergraduate laboratories equipped to introduce and teach students the concepts of unit operations and processes. A week long third-year field trip is offered in collaboration with British Columbia and Alberta companies to introduce students to industrial operations.
There are over 300 undergrad students in the Chemical and Chemical & Biological Engineering program.  The Department also offers programs leading to the Master of Engineering (M.Eng.), Master of Science (M.Sc.), Master of Applied Science (M.A.Sc.) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees in a number of areas of specialization within chemical and biological engineering. The Department is actively engaged in applied research in chemical and biological engineering, supported in part by external funding of about $6 million a year.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
PHYS 157 - Introductory Physics for Engineers I
Heat, thermodynamics, oscillations, waves, and sound.
APSC 100 - Introduction to Engineering I
An introduction to the engineering profession including: roles and responsibilities of the engineer, the engineering disciplines, sustainability, an introduction to the engineering design process, introduction and application of the relevant foundational scientific principles, prototyping, engineering graphics, technical communication, and engineering ethics.
BIOL 112 - Biology of the Cell
The principles of cellular and molecular biology using bacterial and eukaryotic examples.
CHEM 154 - Chemistry for Engineering
Chemical bonding, properties of matter. Chemical thermodynamics with applications to phase equilibria, aqueous equilibria and electrochemistry. Processes at surfaces.
CHBE 201 - Integrated Technical Communication
Written and oral communication in chemical and biological engineering: business correspondence, laboratory reports, technical description, and poster presentations. Restricted to students in second year of the Chemical and Biological Engineering programs.
CHBE 251 - Transport Phenomena I
Fluid Mechanics. Momentum-transfer in fluids in laminar and turbulent flow; microscopic and macroscopic material; momentum and energy balances; rheology; dimensional analysis; flow in conduits; pumps; fluid metering.
MATH 200 - Calculus III
Analytic geometry in 2 and 3 dimensions, partial and directional derivatives, chain rule, maxima and minima, second derivative test, Lagrange multipliers, multiple integrals with applications.
CHEM 260 - Organic Chemistry for Engineers
A description of the properties and reactions of organic compounds.
CHBE 376 - Computer Flowsheeting and Fluid Properties Estimation
Theory and practice of computer flowsheeting in chemical plant design; hands-on use of modern process simulators, prediction of thermodynamic properties of fluids; behaviour of single and multiphase systems.
CHBE 366 - Chemical Engineering Laboratory
Experiments to illustrate and use material presented in 300-level CHBE process option courses. Field trips may be required.
CHBE 351 - Transport Phenomena II
Heat and mass transfer; conduction and molecular diffusion; convective transfer; thermal radiation; analogies among heat, mass and momentum transfer; heat exchanger design.
CHBE 373 - Water Pollution Control
Legal, environmental and physicochemical aspects of industrial water pollution and its abatement will be surveyed; techniques for design of wastewater treatment processes currently used in industry; case studies from chemical and process industries will be considered in detail.
CHBE 484 - Green Engineering Principles and Applications for Process Industries
Pollution prevention, cleaner production, green chemistry and engineering, industrial ecology, eco-industrial parks, and sustainable development; environmental impact assessment including life-cycle assessment, total cost analysis and environmental systems analysis; reduce/recycling/reuse of wastes and by-products.
CHBE 454 - Chemical Process and Product Design
8-month project-based course, integrating chemical engineering concepts with economics, life cycle analysis and health and safety considerations in the design of major chemical processes.
APSC 450 - Professional Engineering Practice
Legislation affecting the practice of engineering; ethical principles and responsibilities. Management of engineering enterprises; labour relations, safety and environmental legislation. Restricted to engineering undergraduate students in the final year of their program.
CHBE 456 - Heterogenous Catalysis and Advanced Reactor Design
Definition of heterogeneous catalysis; properties of catalysts; kinetics of catalytic reactions; ideal heterogeneous reactors; non-isothermal reactor design; mass and heat transfer effects in heterogeneous reactors; examples of industrial reactors.
Your future
Your career opportunities will vary widely across a range of fields including manufacturing and processing, energy, healthcare, pulp and paper, oil and gas, agriculture, plastics and composite materials, and environmental management, and others.
Careers with Chemical Engineering
UBC stories
"Here I have a chance to work with great researchers in hi-tech labs that will certainly increase my knowledge and increase my chances for good jobs when I go back to Brazil."
Hívio Silva, Chemical Engineering
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Applied Science (Engineering)
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
IB Chemistry
IB Physics
Academically strong candidates missing either IB Chemistry or IB Physics may be evaluated on a case-by-case basis
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life on Snapchat
Read admissions blog post
Meet Tuani, a Brazillian student who came to UBC to study Chemical Engineering
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC