Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/chemical-biological-engineering/

Chemical and Biological Engineering
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
This program blends rigorous training in the physical sciences and mathematics with biotechnology, bioprocess engineering, and the life sciences. You can be a steward of the environment, helping to harness the globe’s natural riches and improve the quality of our lives by developing sustainable and green manufacturing technologies for the production of superior medicines, clean water, cleaner fuels and materials, and cutting-edge medical technologies.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Applied Science (Engineering)
Degree:
Bachelor of Applied Science (Engineering)
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The program’s objective is to provide an outstanding and distinctive education in chemical and biological engineering, through a comprehensive and progressive range of academic courses. Selection of electives from a range of topics prepares chemical and biological engineers for meaningful, satisfying and productive careers in industry, government and academia in British Columbia, Canada and other regions of the world. The Chemical and Biological Engineering program provides an opportunity for students to combine interests in life sciences with engineering, and therefore focusses on processes in the fields of biotechnology and biomedical engineering. Some students graduating from this program continue their studies in the medical field.
Graduates are eligible, after appropriate industrial experience, for registration as Professional Engineers.
Campus features
The two-storey UBC Clean Energy Research Centre is located in the Chemical & Biological Engineering building.
Clean Energy Research Centre
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
PHYS 157 - Introductory Physics for Engineers I
Heat, thermodynamics, oscillations, waves, and sound.
APSC 100 - Introduction to Engineering I
An introduction to the engineering profession including: roles and responsibilities of the engineer, the engineering disciplines, sustainability, an introduction to the engineering design process, introduction and application of the relevant foundational scientific principles, prototyping, engineering graphics, technical communication, and engineering ethics.
BIOL 112 - Biology of the Cell
The principles of cellular and molecular biology using bacterial and eukaryotic examples.
APSC 150 - Engineering Case Studies
Application of scientific principles and technical knowledge to practical problems. Introduction to the engineering design process and to engineering graphics.
CHBE 241 - Material and Energy Balances
Introduction to Chemical and Biological Engineering; units; stoichiometry; phase equilibria; material balances; energy balances.
BIOL 112 - Biology of the Cell
The principles of cellular and molecular biology using bacterial and eukaryotic examples.
CHBE 201 - Integrated Technical Communication
Written and oral communication in chemical and biological engineering: business correspondence, laboratory reports, technical description, and poster presentations. Restricted to students in second year of the Chemical and Biological Engineering programs.
CHBE 230 - Computational Methods
Mathematical formulation of chemical and biological engineering problems; standard techniques of numerical analysis and their application to chemical, environmental and biotechnological systems; program development; use of commercial numerical analysis software.
CHBE 376 - Computer Flowsheeting and Fluid Properties Estimation
Theory and practice of computer flowsheeting in chemical plant design; hands-on use of modern process simulators, prediction of thermodynamic properties of fluids; behaviour of single and multiphase systems.
CHBE 455 - Kinetics and Reactor Design
Kinetics of homogeneous chemical and biological reactions, isothermal ideal reactor design, analysis of non-ideal reactors using residence time distribution and mixing models.
STAT 251 - Elementary Statistics
Probability, discrete and continuous random variables, joint probability distributions, estimation, hypothesis testing, regression, analysis of variance, goodness of fit. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section of the Calendar).
CHBE 356 - Process Dynamics and Control
Introduction to modeling of chemical processes; transient response analysis; design of feedback control systems; stability analysis; frequency response analysis; process control applications; instrumentation; advanced control techniques; distributed control systems.
CHBE 484 - Green Engineering Principles and Applications for Process Industries
Pollution prevention, cleaner production, green chemistry and engineering, industrial ecology, eco-industrial parks, and sustainable development; environmental impact assessment including life-cycle assessment, total cost analysis and environmental systems analysis; reduce/recycling/reuse of wastes and by-products.
CHBE 453 - Biological Process and Product Design
8-month project-based course, integrating chemical and biological engineering concepts with economics, life cycle analysis and health and safety considerations in the design of major biological processes.
APSC 450 - Professional Engineering Practice
Legislation affecting the practice of engineering; ethical principles and responsibilities. Management of engineering enterprises; labour relations, safety and environmental legislation. Restricted to engineering undergraduate students in the final year of their program.
CHBE 464 - Chemical and Biological Engineering Laboratory
Experiments in unit operations relating to process, environmental and biological engineering. Experiments are designed to provide experience in instrumentation and control. Field trips may be required.
Your future
Career opportunities vary widely across a range of fields including biotechnology, food and beverage production, manufacturing and processing, quality assurance, environmental protection, biomedical, pharmaceuticals, and more.
Careers with Chemical and Biological Engineering
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Applied Science (Engineering)
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
IB Chemistry
IB Physics
Academically strong candidates missing either IB Chemistry or IB Physics may be evaluated on a case-by-case basis
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Fawaz, an Engineering student, researcher, and fitness enthusiast
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC