Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/cinema-studies/

Cinema Studies
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
If you have a keen interest and critical mind for the screen arts, and you want to join a thriving community of students and scholars, Cinema Studies could be the program for you. You can study a full range of topics that cover most of the world’s cinema movements and periods.
Why this program?
Study various aspects of world cinema, with an emphasis on North American, Asian, and European films.
Develop your critical thinking and writing skills.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
In Cinema Studies, you will examine a full range of topics that cover most of the world’s cinema movements and periods. The program mission is to educate students in the diversity of cinematic practices, and in their historical and contemporary formats. We aim to provide a supportive environment in which you can discuss the role that moving pictures play in various societies, and how they mediate our perceptions of the world.
Campus features
The Visual Resource Centre, featuring the Videomatica Collection, has total holdings of more than 400,000 35mm photographic slides, videos, films, DVDs, and a growing database of 35,000 digital images. Eight viewing stations and a screening room are available to view material.
The Centre for Cinema Studies is a research unit within the Department of Theatre and Film that instigates first-class research into lm and lm audiences. It brings together the expertise of every lm-related course taught at UBC and invites visiting scholars from all over the world, most recently from Korea, Germany, the Czech Republic, and the United Kingdom.
Since 2005, the graduate students in the MA program have edited the journal
Cinephile,
providing opportunities for students to be on an editorial board and to see their best work published. Recent guest faculty include essays from Slavoj Žižek and Barry Keith Grant.
Send details
Why this program?
Study various aspects of world cinema, with an emphasis on North American, Asian, and European films.
Develop your critical thinking and writing skills.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
CINE 100 - Introduction to Cinema Studies
Basic aesthetic, economic, sociological, and technological aspects of film.
FIPR 101 - Introduction to the History of Film Production
The history of film and film production by decade with a strong emphasis on filmmakers and advances in production technology.
ENGL 120 - Literature and Criticism
Enriched study of selected works of literature from a number of critical perspectives. Open to students with a BC-equivalent mark of "A" (86%) in English 12 or "B+" (80%) in English Literature 12. Essays are required.
CINE 210 - Early Cinema
Aesthetics, economics, history, and technological characteristics of international early film.
CINE 230 - Introduction to Asian Cinema
Overview of the cinemas of China, India, Japan, and Korea.
CINE 200 - Introduction to Canadian Cinema
History and aesthetics of Canadian cinema.
CINE 240 - Media Industries
Overview of today's film and media industries, and of the concepts governing their practices.
CINE 220 - Hollywood Cinema 1930-1960
Analysis of the aesthetics, economics, history and technological characteristics of the Classical Hollywood period.
CINE 331 - Studies in Film Theory
A seminar introducing the many theoretical approaches to film: formalist, historical, Marxist, psychoanalytic, semiotic, and structuralist.
CINE 300 - Cult Cinema
Overview of world cult cinema.
CINE 334 - Seminar in Documentary
An analysis of the representational strategies and ethics of the form.
CINE 336 - Seminar in European Cinema
Topics may include a study of a European national cinema.
CINE 340 - Media Audiences
Overview of approaches for studying audiences and receptions of film and contemporary media.
CINE 445 - Majors and Honours Seminar
CINE 430 - Studies in Auteurism
A seminar examining the work of one or more directors, such as John Ford, Francois Truffaut, Denys Arcand, Margarethe Von Trotta, or of a screenwriter over many films.
CINE 432 - Seminar in Motion Picture Forms
Animation, experimental, and/or multimedia.
CINE 436 - Seminar in American Cinema Since 1960
Topics may include an analysis of a specific period.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
View larger image
UBC's Vancouver campus
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Theatre at UBC is a renowned training program that has produced some of Canada’s most innovative artists and theatre practices for over 50 years. Our five programs are encouraged to mingle with regular social events with collective meals and complimentary tickets for all to opening nights. The organized student organization, DAFT (Design, Acting, Film, Theatre Council), organizes events and advocates for student concerns.
Find out more
Your future
Cinema Studies will prepare you for a wide range of careers, including teaching, curating, policy-making, programming and distribution, preservation, filmmaking, writing, consulting, and arts administration.
Program graduates
Film critic, The Globe and Mail; The New York Times; VICE; Filmmaker Magazine
Assistant professor, Radio Television and Film Department, Rowan University
Programming associate, Toronto International Film Festival
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Syahidah, and find out how she stays connected to her Singapore roots at UBC
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC