Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/civil-engineering-vancouver/

Civil Engineering
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Civil engineers shape the world we live in by analyzing, planning, designing, constructing, and maintaining the “built” environment. In this program, you’ll take courses and complete lab work in topics such as soil mechanics and foundation design, construction management, design of steel, concrete and timber structures, as well as municipal infrastructure design, coastal engineering and environmental impact studies.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Applied Science (Engineering)
Degree:
Bachelor of Applied Science (Engineering)
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Civil Engineering provides you with a foundation in basic sciences and specific civil engineering skills. The first year Engineering program and the second year Civil Engineering program include fundamental courses in mathematics, physics, chemistry, solid mechanics, fluid mechanics, and structures. In the third and fourth years, the curriculum largely consists of civil engineering courses in various sub-disciplines including Environmental, Geotechnical, Hydraulics, Structures, and Transportation Engineering. Laboratory work is carried out in the third and fourth years. In your final year, you will work in groups on a design or laboratory project. A number of technical elective courses in the final year allow you to take additional courses in a preferred area of civil engineering.
Campus features
The Civil Engineering Design Studio is a new facility where students can meet with peers and faculty to work on projects and gain a sense of the real-world working environment. The Earthquake Engineering Research Facility has outstanding capabilities, including three shaketables, able to simulate seismic events to a very complex level. Research in the department of Civil Engineering includes major projects in Materials, Coastal & Ocean Engineering, Environmental Fluid Mechanics, Project & Construction Management, Earthquake Engineering, Environmental Engineering, Geotechnical Engineering, Environmental Geotechnics, Hydrotechnical Engineering, Structural Engineering, and Transportation Engineering.
Civil Engineering Design Studio
Earthquake Engineering Research Facility
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
APSC 100 - Introduction to Engineering I
An introduction to the engineering profession including: roles and responsibilities of the engineer, the engineering disciplines, sustainability, an introduction to the engineering design process, introduction and application of the relevant foundational scientific principles, prototyping, engineering graphics, technical communication, and engineering ethics.
CHEM 154 - Chemistry for Engineering
Chemical bonding, properties of matter. Chemical thermodynamics with applications to phase equilibria, aqueous equilibria and electrochemistry. Processes at surfaces.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
PHYS 157 - Introductory Physics for Engineers I
Heat, thermodynamics, oscillations, waves, and sound.
PHYS 170 - Mechanics I
Statics of particles, equilibrium or rigid bodies, rigid body statics and internal forces, trusses; kinematics: rectilinear motion; dynamics:  Newton's second law, friction, impulse, momentum, work and energy.
CIVL 200 - Engineering and Sustainable Development
Implications of a finite biosphere and the complexities inherent in environmental decision-making.
APSC 201 - Technical Communication
Written and oral communication in engineering. Report preparation, business correspondence, and oral presentation of technical material.
CIVL 230 - Solid Mechanics I
Stress and strain, Hooke's law, axially loaded members, torsion, shear forces and bending moments in beams, bending of beams, shear stresses in beams, shear centre, composite members, introduction to elasto-plastic and statically indeterminate problems.
EOSC 210 - Earth Science for Engineers
Focus on the interaction between society and the geologic environment.  Locating, assessing and developing natural resources; understanding and preparing for natural hazards, design of structures and waste disposal sites.  For applied science and forestry students only.
CIVL 300 - Construction Engineering and Management
Project delivery systems: traditional; construction management; turnkey; project management. Network planning methods. Activity planning, including construction methods selection. Estimating, bidding and bonding. Project control tools and procedures. Human resources, including equity considerations; occupational health and safety and quality control.
CIVL 305 - Introduction to Environmental Engineering
Environmental ethics and legislation; risk assessment; urban water sources and sinks; water pollutants and impacts; mass balance and reactor design concepts; water and wastewater treatment; the environmental impact assessment process.
CIVL 315 - Fluid Mechanics II
Two dimensional flow around immersed objects; velocity and pressure fields; lift and drag on cylinders and aerofoils; fluid loads on structures and structural response; pumps and turbines; analysis and design of pipeline systems; unsteady flow in pipes; frictionless waterhammer analysis.
CIVL 340 - Transportation Engineering I
The analysis and design of the elements of transportation facilities in development of transport technology; vehicle motion; vehicle/pavement interaction; elements of road design; principles of queuing and roadway capacity; rail transit performance and capacity analysis; economics as applied to transport.
CIVL 413 - Design of Earth Dams and Containment Structures
Purpose and types of dams; design criteria; construction sequence; compaction; seepage; filter design; factors influencing the design of earth dams; stability and deformation under static and earthquake loading; slope protection; field instrumentation.
CIVL 402 - Professionalism and Law in Civil Engineering
The Engineers and Geoscientists Act; professional ethics, conflicts of interest, confidentiality and accountability; health and safety; sustainable development and environmental stewardship; equity considerations; design and construction contracts, specifications and tendering; labour and employment law; dispute resolution; evidence and expert witnesses; torts and legal liability.
CIVL 409 - Municipal Engineering
Design of municipal infrastructure, including streets, water supply networks, and sewers, garbage collection and solid waste management. Focus is on solutions for providing an adequate water supply, collecting and disposing of stormwater and sewage, and managing excess stormwater flow.
CIVL 446 - Engineering Design and Analysis II
Integration and application of previously acquired knowledge and skills to find design solutions.  Extends the conceptual design of CIVL 445 into detailed design projects.
Your future
Your career opportunities will vary widely across a range of fields including construction management, urban and regional planning, transportation and planning, water supply, geotechnical engineering, waste management, mapping and surveying, environmental protection and rehabilitation, and others.
Careers in Civil Engineering
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Applied Science (Engineering)
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
IB Chemistry
IB Physics
Academically strong candidates missing either IB Chemistry or IB Physics may be evaluated on a case-by-case basis
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Meet Joseph, a Civil Engineering student who used co-op to gain experience and try out career paths
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC