Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/cognitive-systems-bsc/

Cognitive Systems (BSc)
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
This Science program provides you with a grounding in the principles and techniques used by intelligent systems, both natural and artificial. It emphasizes the study of existing systems (i.e., linguistics), the design of new ones (i.e., machine intelligence), and the design of interfaces between different forms of intelligent agents. You can choose to specialize in either Cognition and the Brain, or Computational Intelligence and Design.
Why this program?
Use tools from computer science, linguistics, philosophy, and psychology to study the basis of human thought, its development, and the ways in which it can be used effectively.
Gain skills that you can use in academic, industrial, and governmental and non-governmental organizations to help make the world a better place.
Establish deep and broad foundations on which to build an understanding of the mind.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Cognitive Systems sits at the intersection of computer science, linguistics, philosophy, and psychology. It is the study of the systems that enable people to think, of the systems that can help and hinder our thinking, and of the artificial systems in which something like cognition is accomplished.
We teach, use, and re-conceptualize the most important and in-demand tools of the 21st century: the tools that every organization, business, and government is hoping to benefit from. We know how to understand data, and we know that data never speak for themselves. We know how to design effective cognitive systems, and we understand the ethical complexities of doing so.
As a student in the Cognitive Systems program, you’ll have hands-on research experiences that will equip you to work at the outer limits of scientific understanding, pushing to increase knowledge of those aspects of human nature that have proved most resistant to scientific explanation.
Send details
Why this program?
Use tools from computer science, linguistics, philosophy, and psychology to study the basis of human thought, its development, and the ways in which it can be used effectively.
Gain skills that you can use in academic, industrial, and governmental and non-governmental organizations to help make the world a better place.
Establish deep and broad foundations on which to build an understanding of the mind.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
CPSC 110 - Computation, Programs, and Programming
Fundamental program and computation structures. Introductory programming skills. Computation as a tool for information processing, simulation and modeling, and interacting with the world.
CPSC 121 - Models of Computation
Physical and mathematical structures of computation.  Boolean algebra and combinations logic circuits; proof techniques; functions and sequential circuits; sets and relations; finite state machines; sequential instruction execution.
COGS 200 - Introduction to Cognitive Systems
Interdisciplinary examination of human mental processes and how these are mediated by the brain. Will draw on cognitive psychology, linguistics, cognitive neuroscience, philosophy, artificial intelligence.
LING 100 - Introduction to Language and Linguistics
Study of language as a universal and uniquely human cognitive system: What universals do all languages share and how do languages differ? An investigation of sound systems, word-building, grammatical principles, language change, dialect variation, language acquisition, neurolinguistics. Recommended but not required for an honours, major, or minor in linquistics or speech sciences.
PHIL 220 - Symbolic Logic
Sentential and predicate logic. Translation from natural language; truth tables and interpretations; systems of natural deduction up to relational predicate logic with identity; alternative proof methods. Some sections may use computer-based materials and tests.
STAT 200 - Elementary Statistics for Applications
Classical, nonparametric, and robust inferences about means, variances, and analysis of variance, using computers. Emphasis on problem formulation, assumptions, and interpretation. See the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
COGS 300 - Understanding and Designing Cognitive Systems
Theory and methods for integrating diverse disciplinary content in cognitive systems.
COGS 303 - Research Methods in Cognitive Systems
Examination and comparison of the research methodologies of different disciplines relevant to cognitive systems.
PHIL 451 - Philosophy of Mind
The nature of the mental and physical; the relation between minds and bodies; the character of psychological explanation.
PSYC 365 - Cognitive Neuroscience
Current research into human brain systems underlying cognitive processes such as perception, attention, memory, and decision-making.
COGS 401 - Seminar in Cognitive Systems
Interdisciplinary seminar integrating theory, methods, and current research topics.
COGS 402 - Research in Cognitive Systems
Supervised research project in a Cognitive Systems-related laboratory.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
View larger image
UBC's Vancouver campus
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
UBC's Cognitive Systems program covers dangerous and powerful ideas. You'll encounter the most ancient of philosophical enquiries and the most recently developed branches of computational engineering. You'll learn how this knowledge can be used as a force for change
Find out more
Your future
As a Cognitive Systems graduate, you’ll be equipped with the skills and knowledge required to put information to work for the human good: you’ll have an understanding of information, an understanding of the human, and an understanding of the good. Strong, multidisciplinary foundations established through the Cognitive Systems program will provide you with a unique, multifaceted perspective and prepare you to think flexibly. Cognitive Systems graduates are in demand in any number of professions in which computer science, the human mind, and other complex systems interact.
Program graduates
Founder and CEO, PatentPal
Data Science Consultant, Cardinal Path
Business Intelligence Consultant, Visier
Software Engineer, Microsoft
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry, and
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Katherine, a Behavioural Neuroscience student with an interest in Alzheimer’s research
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC