Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/statistics-combined-majors/

Combined Majors in Statistics
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
These combined major programs emphasize the role of statistics within the general framework of problem solving, and help you develop an understanding of the concepts of observation, hypothesis, evidence, and validation. You can complement your studies with a combined major in Economics, Computer Science, or Mathematics.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculties:
Faculty of Arts, Faculty of Science
Degrees:
Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
UBC’s Department of Statistics (at UBC’s Faculty of Science) enjoys an international reputation for the quality of its faculty and research. If you have an instinctive appreciation for how numbers reveal a story, or a fascination for the role of chance, that is, of uncertainty in the world, then Statistics could well be your field! There is a flexible range of programs to suit your interests, all of which will develop your critical statistical reasoning, and your computational, mathematical, and communication skills.
In addition to the Major in Statistics, there are several programs of combined majors, including Economics and Statistics, Mathematics and Statistics, Mathematical Sciences, and Computer Science and Statistics. You may also be able to complete a degree in statistics with a minor in another area, such as Economics or Commerce.
Statistics and Economics as a combined major is available either as a Bachelor of Arts program or as Bachelor of Science program, depending whether the specific degree requirements fit better with your interests in arts or sciences.
Statistics/Economics (BA)
Statistics/Economics (BSc)
Statistics/Mathematics
Statistics/Computer Science
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
CPSC 110 - Computation, Programs, and Programming
Fundamental program and computation structures. Introductory programming skills. Computation as a tool for information processing, simulation and modeling, and interacting with the world.
MATH 120 - Honours Differential Calculus
Limits, derivatives, Mean Value Theorem and applications, elementary functions, optimization, Taylor series, approximation.
ECON 101 - Principles of Microeconomics
Elements of theory and of Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of markets and market behaviour, prices and costs, exchange and trade, competition and monopoly, distribution of income.
MATH 104 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Commerce and Social Sciences
Derivatives and rates of change, exponential and trigonometric functions, Newton's method, Taylor polynomials, maxima and minima, and graphing.
ECON 102 - Principles of Macroeconomics
Elements of theory and of Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of growth and business cycles, national income accounting, interest and exchange rates, money and banking, the balance of trade.
CPSC 210 - Software Construction
Design, development, and analysis of robust software components. Topics such as software design, computational models, data structures, debugging, and testing.
CPSC 221 - Basic Algorithms and Data Structures
Design and analysis of basic algorithms and data structures; algorithm analysis methods, searching and sorting algorithms, basic data structures, graphs and concurrency.
STAT 200 - Elementary Statistics for Applications
Classical, nonparametric, and robust inferences about means, variances, and analysis of variance, using computers. Emphasis on problem formulation, assumptions, and interpretation. See the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
MATH 227 - Advanced Calculus II
Parametrization of curves and surfaces; line and surface integrals; theorems of Green, Gauss, Stokes; applications to physics and/or introduction to differential forms.
MATH 221 - Matrix Algebra
Systems of linear equations, operations on matrices, determinants, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, diagonalization of symmetric matrices.
ECON 326 - Methods of Empirical Research in Economics
Techniques of empirical economic research. Topics include simple and multiple regression, time series analysis, and simultaneous equation estimation. Students will be required to undertake applied work.
STAT 305 - Introduction to Statistical Inference
Review of probability theory. Sampling distribution theory, large sample theory and methods of estimation and hypothesis testing, including maximum likelihood estimation, likelihood ratio testing and confidence interval construction.
MATH 303 - Introduction to Stochastic Processes
Discrete-time Markov chains, Poisson processes, continuous time Markov chains, renewal theory.
CPSC 320 - Intermediate Algorithm Design and Analysis
Systematic study of basic concepts and techniques in the design and analysis of algorithms, illustrated from various problem areas. Topics include: models of computation; choice of data structures; graph-theoretic, algebraic, and text processing algorithms.
ECON 425 - Introduction to Econometrics
Theoretical and applied issues in statistics and econometrics. Statistical distributions, sampling theory, maximum likelihood methods of estimation and hypothesis testing, generalized least squares, measurement errors, non-normal errors, systems of equations, discrete-choice models, outliers, regression diagnostics, and model selection.
ECON 490 - Seminar in Applied Economics
Selected problems and issues in the theory and practice of Economics. Each section will focus on a different field. Restricted to Economics Majors, and Combined Majors in Economics their final academic session.
CPSC 406 - Computational Optimization
Formulation and analysis of algorithms for continuous and discrete optimization problems; linear, nonlinear, network, dynamic, and integer optimization; large-scale problems; software packages and their implementation; duality theory and sensitivity.
STAT 404 - Design and Analysis of Experiments
Theory and application of analysis of variance for standard experimental designs, including blocked, nested, factorial and split plot designs. Fixed and random effects, multiple comparisons, analysis of covariance. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section in the Calendar).
STAT 461 - Statistical Inference II
Detailed development of the theory of testing hypotheses and confidence regions, Bayesian models and inference, elements of decision theory and additional topics. Intended for Honours students.
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry, and
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet André, an Economics major who used Jump Start as a springboard to get involved
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC