Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/commerce/

Commerce
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Study within Canada’s leading management research school and build your expertise in myriad areas of business. The dynamic and challenging curriculum allows you to choose from ten specializations to focus your degree on the topics you're most passionate about.
Why this program?
Study abroad at one of 61 partner business schools in 30 countries.
Get dedicated services and support in the Hari B. Varshney Business Career Centre to help jumpstart your career.
BCom students find relevant employment with global firms such as KPMG, L’Oréal, HSBC, and McKinsey & Company.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
UBC Sauder School of Business
Degree:
Bachelor of Commerce
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The Bachelor of Commerce degree will provide you with a solid foundation of business basics and management skills you’ll need to thrive in any career you choose. You’ll sharpen your skills in critical thinking, problem solving, communication, organization, and leadership. The diverse range of course offerings and specialization options allow you to tailor your degree to your interests and career aspirations.
Specializations
Accounting
Business Technology Management
Entrepreneurship
Finance
General Business Management
Global Supply Chain and Logistics Management
Marketing
Operations and Logistics
Organizational Behaviour and Human Resources
Real Estate
Optional concentrations
Business Analytics
Business Law
International Business
Sustainability and Social Impact
Campus features
UBC Sauder’s state-of-the-art facilities create an ideal environment for collaborative and meaningful learning. The Canaccord Learning Commons and David Lam Management Research Library provide research and academic support services. The Wayne Deans Investment Analysis Centre and Leith Wheeler Investment Research Lab have the tools students need to access real-time financial data.
Send details
Why this program?
Study abroad at one of 61 partner business schools in 30 countries.
Get dedicated services and support in the Hari B. Varshney Business Career Centre to help jumpstart your career.
BCom students find relevant employment with global firms such as KPMG, L’Oréal, HSBC, and McKinsey & Company.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
COMM 101 - Business Fundamentals
The different disciplines of business and their combination in management planning and decision-making.
COMM 191 - Application of Statistics in Business
Methods and applications of statistics in business; data analysis, descriptive regression; data generation; sampling distributions; hypothesis testing; confidence intervals; two sample problems; inference in regression.
COMM 192 - Management and Organizational Behaviour
Behaviour in organizations as it affects people as individuals, their relationships with others, their performance in groups and their effectiveness at work.
ECON 101 - Principles of Microeconomics
Introduction to consumer behaviour, producer theory, competitive market equilibrium, welfare economics, monopoly, oligopoly, and foundations of strategic interactions.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modelling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List:
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/facult…
COMM 202 - Career Fundamentals
Fundamentals of career management including effective resume and cover letter writing, performing well in interviews and learning about the recruiting cycles, networking and resources available at the Hari B. Varshney Business Career Centre.
COMM 204 - Logistics and Operations Management
The design and management of systems to make products, provide services and deliver them to the end user.
COMM 293 - Financial Accounting
Introduction to the construction and interpretation of financial reports prepared primarily for external use.
COMM 295 - Managerial Economics
Economic foundations of managerial decision-making. Demand theory, cost and production, market structure, competitive strategy, organization of the firm, welfare-economic foundations of business regulation.
COMM 296 - Introduction to Marketing
Basic considerations affecting the domestic and international marketing of goods and services.
COMM 336 - Introduction to Digital Business
Business fundamentals in the digital economy: leveraging digitization and automation; data and analytics; platforms; crowdsourcing; understanding the impact of digital technologies on firms, markets, economies as well as individuals and society.
COMM 393 - Commercial Law
Introduction to the law of contracts, with particular reference to contracts for sale of goods and related law of personal property; principles of agency, partnerships and company law.
COMM 394 - Environment, Society, and Government
Roles of government and business in the Canadian economy, emphasizing interactions with the environment and society, including Indigenous communities. Ethical foundations of government, business and personal decision-making.
COMM 396 - Business Communications II
An activity-focused course providing the opportunity to study and practice forms of written communication needed in business. Credit will be granted for only one COMM 396, COMM 390, COMM 220, or ENGL 301.
COMM 400 - Capstone Experience
Prepares students to transition to career and life after BCom. Integrates and leverages BCom learning towards meeting future challenges personally, at work and in society.
COMM 491 - Real Estate Finance
The role of mortgage markets, mathematical analysis of return and valuation issue and methods of dealing with lender and borrower risk exposure.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Henry Angus Building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
UBC Sauder students can access exceptional career support through a dedicated Business Career Centre that offers one-on-one coaching, workshops, company information sessions, industry networking events, mentorship programs, and co-op work placements. International learning opportunities include the Global Supply Chain and Logistics Management joint exchange program with Copenhagen Business School and Chinese University of Hong Kong in Shenzhen, and the UBC Sauder LIFT: Africa program, in which students work with local entrepreneurs in Kenya.
Find out more
Your future
While at UBC Sauder, students gain a practical understanding of business while learning to be innovators, entrepreneurs, global citizens, and leaders. UBC Sauder’s career support and well-rounded course offerings allow students to stand out from the crowd in the job market and to create a lasting impact on the world. Our alumni network of over 49,000 graduates living in 99 countries have gone on to have successful careers in accounting, technology, consumer products and services, consulting, and financial services.
Program graduates
Associate, Business Leadership Program at LinkedIn
Consultant, Deloitte Canada
Analyst, TD Asset Management
Merchandising manager, NBC Sports
Rates sales, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
UBC stories
"The high quality of education, strong support network, and a myriad of opportunities to get involved in at UBC makes me very confident about my future."
Andrej G., Commerce
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Commerce (UBC Sauder School of Business)
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation (will consider Chemistry and Physics in this category)
Social Studies (only Economics, Ethics, First Nations or Contemporary Indigenous Studies, Geography, Law, Psychology, and Social Studies)
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Nolan’s Story
Read full story
Meet Arielle, a UBC Sauder School of Business student who made the leap from Ontario to BC
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC