Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/computer-science-vancouver-ba/

Computer Science (BA)
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Learn how to use and improve computers while you explore topics such as databases and operating systems, software engineering, security, web development, and numerical methodology. Computer Science gives you a thorough grounding in computer software design, and a broad choice of other studies in computing. This program is ideal if you have a strong interest in computer science and the arts.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The Computer Science BA program includes Faculty of Arts degree requirements together with a thorough grounding in computer software design, and a broad choice of other studies in computing. This program is designed for students who have a strong interest in computer science and the arts, and whose interests are more closely matched by the Faculty of Arts requirements than those of the Faculty of Science.
Campus features
In addition computing resources, the ICICS (Computer Science) building houses the ICICS/CS Reading Room which supports the education, research, and development needs of faculty and students.
What can you do with this major after graduation?
Career opportunities vary widely across a range of fields including hardware/software manufacturing, graphic design, engineering, health care, insurance, robotics, telecommunications, transportation, consulting, and others.
There are many career paths that can combine your academics, skills, and experience with your different interests.
Careers in Computer Science
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
CPSC 110 - Computation, Programs, and Programming
Fundamental program and computation structures. Introductory programming skills. Computation as a tool for information processing, simulation and modeling, and interacting with the world.
CPSC 121 - Models of Computation
Physical and mathematical structures of computation.  Boolean algebra and combinations logic circuits; proof techniques; functions and sequential circuits; sets and relations; finite state machines; sequential instruction execution.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
MATH 101 - Integral Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
The definite integral, integration techniques, applications, modeling, infinite series.
CPSC 210 - Software Construction
Design, development, and analysis of robust software components. Topics such as software design, computational models, data structures, debugging, and testing.
CPSC 213 - Introduction to Computer Systems
Software architecture, operating systems, and I/O architectures.  Relationships between application software, operating systems, and computing hardware; critical sections, deadlock avoidance, and performance; principles and operation of disks and networks.
CPSC 221 - Basic Algorithms and Data Structures
Design and analysis of basic algorithms and data structures; algorithm analysis methods, searching and sorting algorithms, basic data structures, graphs and concurrency.
STAT 200 - Elementary Statistics for Applications
Classical, nonparametric, and robust inferences about means, variances, and analysis of variance, using computers. Emphasis on problem formulation, assumptions, and interpretation. See the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
CPSC 310 - Introduction to Software Engineering
Specification, design, implementation and maintenance of large, multi-module software systems. Principles, techniques, methodologies and tools for computer aided software engineering (CASE); human-computer interfaces, reactive systems, hardware-software interfaces and distributed applications.
CPSC 313 - Computer Hardware and Operating Systems
Instruction sets, pipelining, code optimization, caching, virtual memory management, dynamically linked libraries, exception processing, execution time of programs.
CPSC 320 - Intermediate Algorithm Design and Analysis
Systematic study of basic concepts and techniques in the design and analysis of algorithms, illustrated from various problem areas. Topics include: models of computation; choice of data structures; graph-theoretic, algebraic, and text processing algorithms.
CPSC 312 - Functional and Logic Programming
Principles of symbolic computing, using languages based upon first-order logic and the lambda calculus. Algorithms for implementing such languages. Applications to artificial intelligence and knowledge representation.
CPSC 406 - Computational Optimization
Formulation and analysis of algorithms for continuous and discrete optimization problems; linear, nonlinear, network, dynamic, and integer optimization; large-scale problems; software packages and their implementation; duality theory and sensitivity.
CPSC 410 - Advanced Software Engineering
Specification, design, construction and validation of multi-version software systems.
CPSC 417 - Computer Networking
Network protocols and architecture including internetworking, the Internet, layered communication protocols, routing, flow and congestion control, network performance, wired and wireless data communication.
CPSC 422 - Intelligent Systems
Principles and techniques underlying the design, implementation and evaluation of intelligent computational systems. Applications of artificial intelligence to natural language understanding, image understanding and computer-based expert and advisor systems. Advanced symbolic programming methodology.
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Ronnie, a promising academic with combined honours in Computer Science and Mathematics
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC