Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/computer-engineering/

Computer Engineering
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
In Computer Engineering you’ll learn how to develop, design, and test software, computer networks, and protocols. Every automated device has a software or hardware engineer helping to create it – whether it is the systems that control our phones, cars, planes, or robots.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Applied Science (Engineering)
Degree:
Bachelor of Applied Science (Engineering)
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) consists of three eight-month academic sessions either following first-year Engineering or following a transfer program from first-year Science. The second year is common to both Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering. In the second year, two educational streams are offered: the project integrated program (on a trial basis), which integrates principles of electrical and computer engineering with project work, and the traditional integrated learning method. Some undergraduate curriculum changes will emphasize laboratory work and engineering design, without detracting from the program’s strong analytical base. You can select an option in Software Engineering, as well as a Minor in Honours Mathematics.
Campus features
The challenging undergraduate program in Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering attracts some of the university’s best students. Each year, several of our students win scholarship awards. Our student design teams regularly win prizes in regional, national, and international design competitions.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
APSC 100 - Introduction to Engineering I
An introduction to the engineering profession including: roles and responsibilities of the engineer, the engineering disciplines, sustainability, an introduction to the engineering design process, introduction and application of the relevant foundational scientific principles, prototyping, engineering graphics, technical communication, and engineering ethics.
CHEM 154 - Chemistry for Engineering
Chemical bonding, properties of matter. Chemical thermodynamics with applications to phase equilibria, aqueous equilibria and electrochemistry. Processes at surfaces.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
PHYS 157 - Introductory Physics for Engineers I
Heat, thermodynamics, oscillations, waves, and sound.
PHYS 170 - Mechanics I
Statics of particles, equilibrium or rigid bodies, rigid body statics and internal forces, trusses; kinematics: rectilinear motion; dynamics:  Newton's second law, friction, impulse, momentum, work and energy.
CPEN 211 - Introduction to Microcomputers
Boolean algebra; combinational and sequential circuits; organization and operation of microcomputers, memory addressing modes, representation of information, instruction sets, machine and assembly language programming, systems programs, I/O structures, I/O interfacing and I/O programming, introduction to digital system design using microcomputers.
CPEN 281 - Technical Communication
Written and oral communication in engineering. Technical description, report preparation, business correspondence, and oral presentation of technical material. Restricted to students in second year of Electrical and Computer Engineering programs.
ELEC 201 - Circuit Analysis I
The fundamentals of analysis of lumped linear time-invariant circuits; network theorems; operational amplifiers; first order circuits; DC analysis of diodes, BJT, and FET circuits.
MATH 220 - Mathematical Proof
Sets and functions; induction; cardinality;  properties of the real numbers; sequences, series, and limits. Logic, structure, style, and clarity of proofs emphasized throughout.
EECE 320 - Discrete Structures and Algorithms
Discrete structures, such as trees and graphs, and their properties; introduction to algorithms and algorithmic complexity. Proof of correctness; design techniques such as greedy algorithms and dynamic programming.
EECE 362 - Communications Systems and Networks
Transceiver architectures; link budget analysis; elements of analog and digital communications methods; packet switched networks; multiple access; Internet architecture and protocols.
CPEN 311 - Digital Systems Design
Advanced combinational and sequential electronic system design. Hardware specification, modeling, and simulation using hardware description languages (HDLs) and CAD tools. Design with programmable logic including FPGA's. Applications include complex state machines, microcontrollers, arithmetic circuits, and interface units.
CPEN 331 - Operating Systems
Operating systems, their design and their implementation. Process concurrency, synchronization, communication and scheduling. Device drivers, memory management, virtual memory, file systems, networking and security.
ELEC 221 - Signals and Systems
Complex numbers, LTI systems, convolution sum, discrete-time Fourier series and transforms, z-transform, sampling, introduction to filtering and modulation, feedback systems, stability.
APSC 450 - Professional Engineering Practice
Legislation affecting the practice of engineering; ethical principles and responsibilities. Management of engineering enterprises; labour relations, safety and environmental legislation. Restricted to engineering undergraduate students in the final year of their program.
CPEN 481 - Economic Analysis of Engineering Projects
Time-money relationships; economic analysis of alternatives including the effects of interest rates, inflation, depreciation, taxation and uncertainty; cost estimation and budgeting; financial analysis of engineering operations.
CPEN 491 - Computer Engineering Capstone Design Project
Design, analysis, and implementation of solutions in response to a real world computer engineering problem, provided by industry, research laboratories, or other suitable entities.  Includes coverage of topics such as project management.
Your future
You career opportunities will vary widely across a range of fields including computer systems and design, multimedia applications, embedded and autonomous systems, mobile computing, industrial instrumentation, data analytics, cybersecurity, healthcare, banking, and others.
Careers in Computer Engineering
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Applied Science (Engineering)
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
IB Chemistry
IB Physics
Academically strong candidates missing either IB Chemistry or IB Physics may be evaluated on a case-by-case basis
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life on Snapchat
Read admissions blog post
Meet Dr. Bridson, a UBC professor whose fluid-simulation software was used in the film Life of Pi
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC