Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/creative-writing-vancouver/

Creative Writing
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Visit program website
This two-year studio program offers workshops in the following genres: fiction, poetry, creative non-fiction, writing for children, translation, stage play, radio, television, song lyric and libretto, screenwriting, new media, and writing for graphic forms.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Fine Arts
Length
2 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The Creative Writing program offers a two-year studio course, with instruction by faculty who work in a variety of literary and dramatic forms. The program leads to a Bachelor of Fine Arts in Creative Writing or a joint degree with another department, in which Creative Writing serves as half of the Double Major.
Campus features
The Creative Writing program is the editorial home of western Canada’s oldest literary periodical, PRISM International, which publishes the best in contemporary writing and translation from Canada and around the world.
PRISM International
What can you do with this major after graduation?
Career opportunities vary widely across a range of fields including publishing, communications, marketing, public relations, social media, non-profit, government, tourism, education, and others.
There are many career paths that can combine your academics, skills, and experience with your different interests, including:
Arts administrator
Book publishing manager
Communications manager
Communications policy researcher
Community centre coordinator
Community organizer
Copywriter
Careers with Creative Writing
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
CRWR 401 - Writing Poetry I
A workshop class in the writing of poetry.
CRWR 402 - Writing for New Media I
An advanced workshop class in writing for new media. Restricted to Majors in Creative Writing.
CRWR 403 - Writing for Children and Young Adults I
A workshop class in writing for Children and Young Adults.
CRWR 405 - Writing Creative Nonfiction I
A workshop class in writing creative nonfiction, focused on some of the more popular forms of creative nonfiction: autobiography, rhetoric (commentary), literary journalism, and the personal essay.
CRWR 406 - Writing for the Screen I
A workshop class in writing for the screen.
CRWR 408 - Writing for Graphic Forms I
A workshop class in the writing of graphic novel, manga, and other forms of illustrated writing. The ability to draw is not required.
CRWR 409 - Writing Fiction I
A workshop class in the writing of fiction.
CRWR 416 - Writing for Television I
A workshop class in writing for television.
CRWR 457 - Writing of Drama for the Stage II
An advanced workshop class in writing drama for the stage. Studio work is required. Assumes a greater level of experience in writing drama for the stage than CRWR 407.
CRWR 411 - Writing for Lyric Forms I
A workshop class exploring the words that accompany music in varied forms including pop, art, musical theatre, and opera.
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life on Snapchat
Read admissions blog post
Meet Al, a lover of books and bacteria who double majored in English Literature and Microbiology
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC