Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/cultural-studies/

Cultural Studies
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Explore media and popular cultures, global cultural studies, and critical and cultural theory through courses in internet culture, film and television, activism, globalization, human rights, and more. You'll graduate with the knowledge and skills required for a wide variety of professions.
Why this program?
Build an exceptional foundation with global perspectives on media, identity, diversity, and justice
Challenge dominant or “normal” assumptions about who and how we are, in relation to others
Learn in a self-critical, self-reflexive, and engaged teaching and research environment
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Faculty of Creative and Critical Studies
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Cultural Studies offers an interdisciplinary approach to traditional humanities and social sciences, encouraging you to examine specific concerns, such as the construction of racial, gender, national, class, and sexual identities, issues of social change, and the experience of power.
You’ll study how different disciplines constitute knowledge and experiment with different approaches to knowledge production that may have more impact in the real world. For example, a student in a third-year documentary and docudrama course might submit a short essay and post an original film to YouTube in lieu of a typical research term paper.
Experiential learning and research
The first of its kind in western Canada, the Cultural Studies program offered by the
Faculty of Creative and Critical Studies
seeks to approach questions of identity, power, and justice from an intercultural and global perspective. It gives you the ability to structure your degree in a way that fosters linkages between disciplines.
In your third or fourth year, you’ll have the option of taking
Community-Engaged Research in Cultural Studies
(CULT 499), a course that links experiential learning with the development of writing, research, and analytical skills. You’ll have the opportunity to engage with various community partners in a team-based setting to complete projects that support these groups.
Send details
Why this program?
Build an exceptional foundation with global perspectives on media, identity, diversity, and justice
Challenge dominant or “normal” assumptions about who and how we are, in relation to others
Learn in a self-critical, self-reflexive, and engaged teaching and research environment
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
CULT 100 - Media and Popular Cultures in Global Context
Introduction to media and cultural studies in a global context, specifically the critical analysis of cultural texts, cultural industries, and media audiences.
CULT 101 - Cultural Studies Practices
Key concepts and methods across the history of cultural studies including analysis of consumer society, identity, space, and memory.
ENGL 112 - Studies in Composition
Study and application of the principles of university-level discourse, with emphasis on processes of research-based writing. Essays and exercises are required.  or
ENGL 151 - Critical Studies in Literature
Introduction to literature with a focus on literary criticism. It therefore draws from a range of styles and periods as well as introducing students to a variety of critical approaches. At least 35% of class time will be dedicated to instruction in university-level essay writing and research.  or
CULT 235 - Introduction to Contemporary Japan Through Pop Culture
A thematic exploration of contemporary Japanese society through popular culture narratives (such as manga, anime, film, and video games) in English translation.
CULT 215 - Cultural Industries
An introductory critical study of cultural industries such as television and popular music.
CULT 210 - Reading Screens
Introduction to film and other screen-based media as narrative, with a focus on both formal and ideological elements.
CULT 230 - Foundations: Reading Across Borders
English literature and culture produced outside Britain and North America. Attention will be given to legacies of imperialism as well as notions of culture and difference with particular emphasis on the standpoint and perspective of the reader in relation to the text.
CULT 270 - Reading Popular Culture
Introduction to the critical analysis of contemporary popular culture forms such as architecture, video games, television, and popular fiction and cultural practices such as consumerism, participation in subcultures and social networking, from within the context of modernity.
GWST 336 - Feminist Cultural Studies
Theories of the representation of gender in contemporary culture in the context of contemporary feminist thought and current theoretical methodologies in cultural studies.
CULT 320 - Creative Activism: Art, Media, and Social Justice
Examination of the convergence between social justice movements, activist media, and artistic practice.
CULT 346 - Human Rights, Literature, and Culture
Examines war, conflict, struggles for social justice, and the ideal of human dignity in relation to narrative, discourse, and representation.
INDG 306 - Indigenous Land Rights
Legal theories under British Law or its historical derivations that have been used to justify the colonization of Indigenous peoples. Legal arguments and anthropological evidence raised by Indigenous groups to challenge those theories. Particular reference is paid to Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and the United States.
HIST 351 - History of Gender and Sexuality in Latin America
Role of gender and sexuality from colonial period to the present. Role of the family and community in reinforcing sexual and gendered roles.
CULT 405 - Reading Gothic Film
The gothic/horror film as a genre that provides insight into cultural narratives regarding gender, sexuality, race, and class. Films may be approached from a number of critical perspectives, including psychoanalytic, feminist, and cultural theories.
CULT 437 - Postcolonial Studies
Examines colonialism, decolonization, and globalization, as they relate to literature and other modes of cultural production, using a cross-cultural framework. Topics vary from year to year. No more than 9 credits in total will be granted for CULT 437, ENGL 437, or any combination thereof.
CULT 401 - Topics in Media Studies
CULT 410 - Asian Cinema
Specific Asian directors, genres, and/or cross-regional topics in film studies. In English.
CULT 480 - Performance Studies
Seminar in the interdisciplinary field of performance studies, broadly conceived as the investigation of aesthetic, ritual, and everyday life performance practices.
View larger image
Creative and Critical Studies Building on UBC's Okanagan campus
Life at UBC's Okanagan campus
The Cultural Studies program on UBC's Okanagan campus provides you with a portfolio of tangible experiences and skills – from collaboration and digital literacy, to community-engaged research.
Find out more
Your future
As a Cultural Studies graduate, you will be an empowered critic and theorist of historical and contemporary cultural activities, and possess the ability to generate learning that influences society. You’ll be prepared to live in a world where writing, reading, coding, and decoding are employable skills in high demand.
Work in marketing, advertising, publishing, or web design
, or continue your education to pursue a career in law or social work.
Program graduates
Communications and Marketing Advisor, Capilano University
Cultural Operations Manager, Sncewips Heritage Museum
Advisor, International Programs and Services, UBC's Okanagan Campus
Blogger,
ANOKHI
Magazine
Social Media Intern, Jugni Style
UBC stories
“It is one thing to identify what is wrong with this world, but it’s another to see how people are managing to live and finding joy within it. Because this is where the changes are happening.”
Sophie H., Bachelor of Arts, Cultural Studies
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Emmy, an Arts student who switched to Cultural Studies after a trip to New Zealand
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC