Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/data-analytics/

Data Analytics
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Visit program website
In a time of exceptional computing power and data availability, an economics degree supplemented with data analytics skills is highly valued in the job market. Data Analytics will provide a strong core in applied economics and data analysis, a combination that is fundamental for parsing global influences on food markets and natural resource conservation. Learn how to interpret ever-growing sources of data gleaned from satellites, citizen science, etc., and use it to provide economic insight and advanced analytics for decision-making.
Why this program?
Combine economics, data analysis, and physical sciences and graduate with a unique set of skills for the labour market.
Increase your job prospects by learning skills in causal inference, spatial data analysis, and predictive analytics.
Benefit from a small program that encourages strong connections between students and professors who act as both instructors and mentors.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Degree:
Bachelor of Science in Food and Resource Economics
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
This program will give you specialized knowledge in the economics of natural resource conservation and global food markets. You can choose to tackle critical issues resulting from climate change, resource depletion, biodiversity loss, and slowing agricultural productivity.
You will support your economic analysis using data analysis built on standard coding platforms such Python and R. Data visualization will help you observe and present trends in environmental outcomes and map spatial data. By learning to evaluate causal relationships you can make or reject claims on the efficacy of governmental and non-governmental policies, such as carbon taxes, invasive species restrictions, and certifications.
Experiential learning and research
Students are encouraged to use FRE 497 (Directed Studies in Food and Resource Economics) to engage in a professor-supervised research project and gain a deeper understanding of depth in the food and natural resource area of their choosing.
Life at UBC's Vancover campus
In this program you’ll have access to the talents and diverse perspectives of instructors in the Food and Resource Economics (FRE) group, the Vancouver School of Economics, and the UBC Sauder School of Business. Flexible electives and opportunity are key strengths of the program.
Send details
Why this program?
Combine economics, data analysis, and physical sciences and graduate with a unique set of skills for the labour market.
Increase your job prospects by learning skills in causal inference, spatial data analysis, and predictive analytics.
Benefit from a small program that encourages strong connections between students and professors who act as both instructors and mentors.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
ECON 101 - Principles of Microeconomics
Introduction to consumer behaviour, producer theory, competitive market equilibrium, welfare economics, monopoly, oligopoly, and foundations of strategic interactions.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modelling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List:
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/facult…
LFS 150 - Scholarly Writing and Argumentation in Land and Food Systems
Communicating concepts of food systems and links to human and environmental health through writing, elements of argumentation, evaluating evidence, and searching for and citing references to back up claims; small-class experience. Enrolment limited to LFS students with first year status.
BIOL 112 - Biology of the Cell
The principles of cellular and molecular biology using bacterial and eukaryotic examples.
LFS 252 - Land, Food, and Community: Quantitative Data Analysis
Introduction to tools needed for data analysis of the economic, ecological, health, and scientific components of land and food systems.
ECON 255 - Understanding Globalization
Social and economic implications for both rich and poor countries of lowered barriers to the international flows of information, capital, labour and goods. May not be taken for credit by students with fourth-year standing in Bachelor of International Economics or any of the following Economics programs offered by VSE: Majors, Minors, Combined Majors, Honours.
FRE 290 - Introductory Topics in Food and Resource Economics
Analysis and interpretation of current issues in food and resource economics. Topics will vary from year to year.
FRE 306 - Introduction to Global Food Markets
An overview of global food markets including recent trends (e.g., vertical coordination, strategic alliances, multinationals and small firms in niche markets), marketing and trade institutions such as state-trading enterprises and WTO regulations, issues specific to developing nations, and case studies.
ECON 301 - Intermediate Microeconomic Analysis I
Consumer behaviour, producer theory, competitive market equilibrium, welfare economics, uncertainty, monopoly and oligopoly.
FRE 326 - Empirical Methods for Food and Resource Economics
Introduction to empirical methods with applications for problems in food and resource economics; standard linear regression and methods to address data deficiencies; interpretation of regression results for forecasting and policy analysis.
FRE 374 - Land and Resource Economics
Willingness to pay, opportunity costs, externalities, and market failures in natural resource markets; dynamic efficiency; economic applications including mineral, marine, forest, land, water, and biodiversity.
FRE 385 - Quantitative Methods for Business and Resource Management
Spreadsheet modeling and analysis of business and resource management problems: decision analysis, forecasting, linear programming, simulation modeling, and inventory management.
FRE 426 - Predictive Analytics for Food and Resource Economics
Statistical and machine learning algorithms for predictive analytics in the context of relevant problems in food, sustainability, and resource-related issues.
FRE 474 - Causal Inference in the Economics of Natural Resource Conservation
Estimating causal relationships in natural resource economics; applied data analysis; econometrics; counterfactual thinking, and applications to the economics of: natural resource conservation, species loss and extraction, protected areas, international trade of wildlife products, and endangered species legislation.
FRE 374 - Land and Resource Economics
Willingness to pay, opportunity costs, externalities, and market failures in natural resource markets; dynamic efficiency; economic applications including mineral, marine, forest, land, water, and biodiversity.
GEOS 370 - Advanced Geographic Information Science
Theoretical and practical aspects of Geographic Information Systems, including cartographic modelling, digital terrain models, management issues, and spatial interpolation. Recommended pre-requisites: Third-year standing in ENSC, GEOG, ENST, URST, or GEOS (or GEOB) specializations, with some introductory knowledge of GIS.
Your future
There are many types of jobs for graduates with an undergraduate degree in Food and Resource Economics, especially those with a Data Analytics specialization. Employers may include environmental non-governmental organizations, government agencies involved in natural resource conservation, and the agri-food sector. Potential job titles include:
Analyst (decision support, credit, market)
Junior consultant, research assistant
Economic forecaster
Sales and marketing associate
Students are also well trained to apply for various graduate programs in agricultural and resource economics, economics, and statistics at UBC and other universities.
You’ll find these pages helpful
Apply now