Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/dental-hygiene/

Dental Hygiene
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Prepare for a career as a dental hygienist as you study both theory and evidence-based practice. Dental hygiene theory and practice draw on biomedical, social and behavioural sciences as well as the body of dental hygiene knowledge. Key responsibilities of dental hygienists include health promotion, education, clinical therapy, research, change agent, and administration.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Dentistry
Degree:
Bachelor of Dental Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
No
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The Dental Hygiene program prepares you to become a dental hygienist committed to advancing oral health and community service. Dental Hygiene is a health profession involving theory and evidence-based practice that draw on biomedical, social, and behavioural sciences, as well as the body of dental hygiene knowledge. Dental hygienists are responsible for health promotion, education, clinical therapy, research, and administration. The practice of dental hygiene involves collaboration with clients, dentists, dental assistants, other health professionals, and society.
The Dental Hygiene program accepts applications from international students. Prospective international students should determine certification requirements in the country of their intended practice.  All applicants should be aware that owing to the small number of places available each year, the program is very competitive for entry.
Campus features
The Nobel Biocare Oral Health Centre clinical facility possesses state-of-the-art technology and an innovative architectural design for effective learning, community service and research.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
BIOL 153 - Human Biology
The principles of biology with particular reference to the human body (anatomy and physiology). Laboratories include selected experiments on organ physiology and general anatomy. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
CHEM 121 - Structure and Bonding in Chemistry
Fundamentals of bonding theories and structural chemistry, with applications relevant to modern society.
DHYG 106 - Basics of Oral Microbiology
Basic principles in the study of microorganisms and their relation to human health for dental hygiene students.
DHYG 108 - Oral Health Sciences I
An introduction to normal, healthy facial, oral, and dental structures; oral health records, and charting terminology and symbols.
DHYG 110 - Dental Hygiene Theory & Practice I
An introduction to the Dental Hygiene profession, practice roles and the process of care model.
DHYG 206 - Head & Neck Anatomy
DHYG 208 - Oral Health Sciences II
An introduction to desease-related concepts during the study of dental materials, general pathology, plaque biofilm, nutrition, radiology, periodontology, and oral pathology.
DHYG 210 - Dental Hygiene Theory and Practice II
The study of dental hygiene theory and practice in clinical and community-based settings.
STAT 203 - Statistical Methods
Organizing, displaying and summarizing data. Inference estimation and testing for elementary probability models. Not for credit towards a B.Sc. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section in the Calendar.)
DHYG 310 - Dental Hygiene Theory & Practice III
The study of dental hygiene theory and practice with emphasis on diverse clients with oral health care needs.
DHYG 325 - Applied Pharmacology
Applied pharmacology concepts and principles for the dental health professional.
DHYG 400 - Policy Analysis and Change
Critical reviews of oral health care delivery, oral disease processes and dental hygiene.
DHYG 401 - Oral Epidemiology
Basic epidemiological and statistical concepts and tests relevant to evidence-based oral health practices.
DHYG 435 - Oral Medicine and Pathology
Pathobiology of oral diseases. Available in online distance education format only.
DHYG 405 - Oral Microbiology and Immunology
Microbiology and immunological concepts relevant for dental hygiene practice.
DHYG 410 - Dental Hygiene Theory & Practice IV
Critical analysis of dental hygiene theory and practice related to diverse clients with complex oral health care needs.
DHYG 412 - Oral Health Care Trends & Topics
Critical analysis of health care trends and oral health care delivery with emphasis on underserved diverse populations.
DHYG 462 - Literature Review II
A continuation of DHYG 461.
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Dental Hygiene
IB Biology
IB Chemistry
Supplemental submission and interview process
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Chandni, a Nepalese student who ended up doing an internship in Rwanda
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC