Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/dentistry/

Dentistry
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Visit program website
The Doctor of Dental Medicine degree program is designed to prepare you to practise your chosen profession with a high degree of technical skill. The program is based on a sound knowledge of the related biological sciences.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Dentistry
Degree:
Doctor of Dental Medicine
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
No
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The DMD curriculum at UBC is an innovative hybrid of problem-based learning (PBL) and more traditional lectures and clinical experiences, with an emphasis on self-directed student learning and problem solving in small group settings. Lectures occupy a smaller amount of curriculum time than in traditional curricula. The knowledge, attitudes, and skills required of a UBC graduate entering general dental practice are outlined in the UBC Faculty of Dentistry Competency Document.
Entry to the Dentistry program requires a minimum of three years (90 credits) of post-secondary study.
UBC Faculty of Dentistry Competency Document
Dental program admission procedure
Campus features
The Nobel Biocare Oral Health Centre clinical facility possesses state-of-the-art technology and an innovative architectural design for effective learning, community service and research.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
DENT 410 - Dentistry I: Foundations of Clinical Dentistry
Fundamentals of human biology, body systems, diseases, and supporting basic oral health sciences. Learning in small groups, classroom, laboratory, and clinical settings utilizing technology.  Professionalism, ethics, inter-professional education and the social contract, communication skills, and critical evaluation of the literature. Begin to apply foundation knowledge and skills to patient assessment and care.
DENT 420 - Dentistry II: Basic Clinical Dentistry
Continued exposure to body systems and the supporting biomedical sciences with applications in dental clinical sciences, integrated into small group learning, classroom, laboratory, and community settings utilizing technology; continued engagement in professionalism, ethics and communication skills.
DENT 430 - Dentistry III: Intermediate Clinical Dentistry
A multi-disciplinary course integrating didactic, simulation, clinical, and community service learning. Students function as team members in clinical group practices with individual progression through the Clinical Clerkships.
DENT 440 - Dentistry IV
A continuing integrated, multi-disciplinary course with ongoing participation in clinical group practices and individual progression through the Clinical Clerkships and community service learning.
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Meet Chandni, a Nepalese student who ended up doing an internship in Rwanda
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC