Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/dietetics/

Dietetics
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
UBC’s Dietetics program prepares you for entry into an in-demand profession that’s experiencing faster-than-average growth across Canada and internationally. As a registered dietitian, you’ll improve and promote health through optimized food and nutrition, and fill a variety of roles in nutrition care, management, or population and public health.
Why this program?
Dietetics is a professional program designed to meet national accreditation standards for the dietetics profession.
Graduates are highly employable in diverse roles, with the majority working in the health care system.
UBC offers the only dietetics program in British Columbia.
The program includes a standardized practice education component, which is required to enter the profession.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Degree:
Bachelor of Science in Food, Nutrition, and Health
Length
5 yrs
Co-op
No
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Dietetics is a professional program planned to meet the accreditation standards for the dietetics profession in Canada, and is the only dietetics program offered in British Columbia. You’ll explore general biological and social sciences courses, as well as specialized dietetics courses like basic and applied human nutrition, food and food systems management, and professional dietetic practice.
The program involves five years of study: two prerequisite years and three program years (your fifth year is spent in practice education placements at various locations across B.C.). Once you graduate, you’ll be eligible to practice as a registered dietitian upon application to a provincial regulatory body and successful completion of a national registration examination.
Prospective applicants who are interested in working in dietetics internationally are advised to check registration requirements in the country where they intend to practice.
Experiential learning and research
The Dietetics major differs from other nutrition-related majors offered by Land and Food Systems in that it is a regulated health-profession training program. As such, it has specific courses and practice education placements to assist students to develop knowledge and skills for dietetic practice in the Canadian context.
Campus features
Vij’s Kitchen is a teaching and learning space in the Food, Nutrition, and Health Building. The space includes modern kitchen stations and a demo station that is used for both classroom learning and culinary technique classes. The culinary lab provides a great learning environment for students to learn basic food theory and food preparation, as well as multicultural culinary techniques and skills.
Send details
Why this program?
Dietetics is a professional program designed to meet national accreditation standards for the dietetics profession.
Graduates are highly employable in diverse roles, with the majority working in the health care system.
UBC offers the only dietetics program in British Columbia.
The program includes a standardized practice education component, which is required to enter the profession.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
BIOL 112 - Biology of the Cell
The principles of cellular and molecular biology using bacterial and eukaryotic examples.
PSYC 101 - Introduction to Biological and Cognitive Psychology
Introduction to Methods and Statistics, Biopsychology, Learning, Perception, Memory, and Cognition.
LFS 150 - Scholarly Writing and Argumentation in Land and Food Systems
Communicating concepts of food systems and links to human and environmental health through writing, elements of argumentation, evaluating evidence, and searching for and citing references to back up claims; small-class experience. Enrolment limited to LFS students with first year status.
FNH 160 - Introductory Physiology for Human Nutrition I
Basic principles in human physiology, including function of the nervous, endocrine, musculoskeletal and digestive systems, integration across systems, maintenance of homeostasis, and application to human nutrition.
FNH 250 - Nutrition Concepts and Controversies
Fundamental concepts and principles of human nutrition applied to current nutrition issues.
CHEM 233 - Organic Chemistry for the Biological Sciences
Reactions and properties of carbonyl compounds, carbohydrates, amino acids, nucleic acids.
FNH 200 - Exploring Our Food
Chemical and physical properties of foods; issues pertaining to safety, nutritive value and consumer acceptability; government regulations pertaining to food safety, quality and additives; preservation techniques and transformation of agricultural commodities to food products; foods of the future.
LFS 250 - Land, Food and Community I: Introduction to Food Systems and Sustainability
Managed systems and concepts of sustainability; economic, ecological and social components; managed landscapes, agri-food systems, and communities; urban and rural systems; the land, food, nutrition and human health continuum.
FNH 340 - Food Theory and Applications
Principles of food preparation based on the physical and chemical properties of food, and experimental and practical applications to food preparation.
FNH 371 - Human Nutrition Over The Life Span
Nutritional requirements and dietary patterns of healthy individuals throughout the life span. 3-0-0
FNH 380 - Professional Dietetic Practice I
Introduction to the profession of dietetics in Canada. Restricted to students in the Dietetics Major.
FNH 350 - Fundamentals of Nutrition
Fundamentals of energy and macronutrient metabolism.
FNH 440 - Food Service Systems Management
Management responsibilities in quantity food production with emphasis on menu planning, purchasing and service. Includes planning and equipping food services. Restricted to students in the Dietetics major. Note: Course registrants are required to possess a Foodsafe II certificate.
FNH 481 - Dietetics Practice Education Placement II
Practice education placements in settings across British Columbia. Restricted to students in the Dietetics Major.
FNH 473 - Applied Public Health Nutrition
Theory and methods in public health nutrition and health promotion program planning to assess, plan, implement, and evaluate nutrition-related programs for communities and populations. Considers factors affecting behavior and the social determinants of health.
FNH 475 - Foundations of Nutrition Care III
Etiology, pathophysiology and nutrition therapy for selected diseases and conditions. Topics include neurological disorders, dysphagia, critical care, oncology, hepatobiliary conditions, HIV and renal disease.
FNH 415 - Business Concepts in Food, Nutrition, and Health
Introduction to and application of business activities in food, nutrition, and health settings. Credit will only be granted for only one of FNH 415, FOOD 515, or FRE 515.
FNH 482 - Dietetics Practice Education Placement III
Practice education placements in settings across British Columbia. Restricted to students in the Dietetics Major.
FNH 483 - Dietetics Practice Education Placement IV
Practice education placements in settings across British Columbia. Restricted to students in the Dietetics Major.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
View larger image
Food, Nutrition, and Health building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Study on UBC’s Vancouver campus as you prepare yourself for entry into a growing profession with a diverse range of roles, many within the ever-expanding health care system. You’ll develop skills for professional practice as you gain the knowledge required to meet national accreditation standards.
Find out more
Your future
Many graduates of UBC’s Dietetics program have gone on to guide the food and nutritional choices of people through private practice. Other opportunities include advising government and industry, driving policy decisions, and directing nutrition programs for schools, hospitals, and food services.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Food, Nutrition, and Health
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry, and
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Social Studies
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Chandni, a Nepalese student who ended up doing an internship in Rwanda
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC