Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/doctor-medicine

Doctor of Medicine (MD)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Medicine (MD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
The MD program is not considered a graduate degree at UBC despite carrying Doctor in its name. Thus, the program is not administered by Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies. Admission to the MD program resides with the Faculty of Medicine. Interested students should visit the
MD program website
for further information.
Overview
The University of British Columbia’s (UBC) Faculty of Medicine plays a critical role in training the health professionals of the future. Students in the accredited Doctor of Medicine (MD) undergraduate program have the opportunity to learn medicine at one of four geographically distinct program sites – the Island Medical Program (IMP), Northern Medical Program (NMP), Vancouver Fraser Medical Program (VFMP) and the Southern Medical Program (SMP) – where they gain invaluable training and mentoring from highly skilled clinicians.
With a strong focus on innovation, technology and patient-centred care, the MD program equips graduates with the knowledge, training and experience they need to meet the health care challenges of today and tomorrow.
The MD Undergraduate program is a four-year program. This is followed by a residency in a chosen or assigned specialization, which may take between two and seven years to complete.
Up to 10% of seats are reserved for out-of-province applicants. International students cannot apply to the MD program.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
UBC is a fantastic institute for both clinical medicine and biomedical research. I have been lucky enough to find amazing mentors and colleagues here who have challenged me intellectually and pushed me to new levels of achievement. BC is also home to me, and I hope to practice medicine and conduct research here after completing my training.
Daljeet Chahal
Open All
Geographic Restrictions
Only Canadian citizens, permanent residents of Canada, and persons with refugee status in Canada may apply to the program. We do not accept international students.
Further Information
Specialization
Medicine
UBC Calendar
http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,209,374,0
Program Website
https://mdprogram.med.ubc.ca/admissions/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Medicine
Academic Unit
Faculty of Medicine
Program Website
Experience the colours of Vancouver
Great academic programs, great location: the distinct seasons and mild climate are among the reasons why graduate students choose to study here -- from the autumn leaves to cherry blossoms, witness the many colours Vancouver has to offer.