Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-resources-environment-sustainability

Doctor of Philosophy in Resources, Environment and Sustainability (PhD)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Philosophy in Resources, Environment and Sustainability (PhD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Institute for Resources, Environment and Sustainability (IRES) at the University of British Columbia (UBC) is a problem-focused and curiosity-driven interdisciplinary research institute and graduate program, with interest and expertise in a wide range of topics under the realm of environment and sustainability.
Our mission is to foster sustainable futures through integrated research and learning about the linkages among human and natural systems, and to support decision making from local to global scales.
More often than not, we achieve this through collaborations across students and faculty in a manner that recognizes our collective skills, intellectual histories and methodological approaches, and yet encourages our interdependencies as we consider real world problems.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Over fifty percent of our core faculty are Canada Research Chairs and faculty mentoring has led to a high success rate of our students winning major fellowships and scholarships. There are multi-year funding packages offered for top applicants to the RES program. RES has over 400 alumni since the graduate program started in 1994.
UBC is among the leading universities in the realm of environment and sustainability research. As a sustainability researcher, the prospect of living in a city and campus that have progressive sustainability mandates and operates like a living laboratory for climate action, is inspiring!
Neha Sharma-Mascarenhas
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Science
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Dissertation
Academic Unit
Institute for Resources, Environment & Sustainability
Specialization
Resources, Environment and Sustainability
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
24
Writing
24
Speaking
24
Listening
24
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.5
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
RES does not admit applicants to the PhD program unless they have completed a thesis-based master's degree prior to the RES PhD program start.
Course Requirements
There are no specific prerequisites for the RES PhD program other than you must have completed a thesis-based Masters degree from a recognized institution. As we are an interdisciplinary program, we accept applications from all disciples and backgrounds. Anyone interested in studying environmental/sustainability problems in an interdisciplinary way is encouraged to apply.
Document Requirements
The RES program requires all applicants to submit a thesis proposal with their application. Details of this can be found here:
https://ires.ubc.ca/graduate-program/prospective-students/how-to-apply/
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 October 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
22 December 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
22 December 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Resources, Environment and Sustainability (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
All full-time students who begin a UBC-Vancouver PhD program in September 2024 or later will be guaranteed a minimum funding package of $24,000 for each of the first four years of their PhD. This
guaranteed minimum doctoral funding package
may consist of any combination of internal or external awards, teaching-related work (TA), Research assistantships (RA), and Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA).
Additional funding opportunities for PhD applicants may come from UBC’s
Four Year Doctoral Fellowship (4YF)
: an $18,200 stipend plus full tuition coverage per year, for four consecutive years.
RES students have also been highly successful in receiving support from the most prestigious funding agencies. Many of our students are
Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (SSHRC)
or
Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC)
recipients, and in recent years we have seen our students receive both
Vanier  Canada Graduate Scholarships
and the
Trudeau Foundation Doctoral Scholarship
, the most highly-regarded scholarships in Canada. You can review a detailed list of the
most commonly applied to scholarships
on our website.
In addition to external scholarships and funding options noted above, RES typically distributes one-time entrance awards to the majority of incoming students. The amount of these awards varies year to year, however over the last three years the awards have been in the range of $3000-$5000.
It is important for applicants to the RES program to confirm the details of any funding package that may be available to them prior to accepting an offer of admission to the program.
Average Funding
Based on the criteria outlined below,
32
students within this program were included in this study because they received funding through UBC in the form of teaching, research, academic assistantships or internal or external awards averaging
$42,779
.
8 students received Teaching Assistantships. Average TA funding based on 8 students was $6,018.
19 students received Research Assistantships. Average RA funding based on 19 students was $17,172.
12 students received Academic Assistantships. Average AA funding based on 12 students was $4,726.
32 students received internal awards. Average internal award funding based on 32 students was $13,925.
16 students received external awards. Average external award funding based on 16 students was $30,208.
Study Period: Sep 2022 to Aug 2023 - average funding for full-time PhD students enrolled in three terms per academic year in this program across years 1-4, the period covered by
UBC's Minimum Funding Guarantee
. Averages might mask variability in sources and amounts of funding received by individual students. Beyond year 4, funding packages become even more individualized.
Review methodology
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Outcomes
71 students graduated between 2005 and 2013: 1 graduate is seeking employment; for 8 we have no data (based on research conducted between Feb-May 2016). For the remaining 62 graduates:
RI (Research-Intensive) Faculty: typically tenure-track faculty positions (equivalent of the North American Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor positions) in PhD-granting institutions
TI (Teaching-Intensive) Faculty: typically full-time faculty positions in colleges or in institutions not granting PhDs, and teaching faculty at PhD-granting institutions
Term Faculty: faculty in term appointments (e.g. sessional lecturers, visiting assistant professors, etc.)
Sample Employers in Higher Education
University of British Columbia (9)
Simon Fraser University
University of Lausanne
University of Victoria
Institute of Biology, University of the Philippines-Diliman
Douglas College
University of Manitoba
Federal University of Sergipe
Quest University Canada
Naropa University
Sample Employers Outside Higher Education
Government of Canada (2)
EPCOR Water Inc.
Aquatic Informatics
Madrone Environmental Services
International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas
Compass Resource Management Ltd.
IUU Risk Intelligence
BC Hydro
Amiran Services Ltd.
Metro Vancouver
Sample Job Titles Outside Higher Education
Partner (2)
Consultant (2)
Senior Policy Analyst (2)
Principal (2)
Research Scientist (2)
Founder
Early Career Academy Researcher
Senior Fisheries Scientist
Senior Microbiologist
Author, Professor, Activist
PhD Career Outcome Survey
You may view the full report on career outcomes of UBC PhD graduates on
outcomes.grad.ubc.ca
.
Disclaimer
This program underwent a name or structural change in the study time frame, and all alumni from the previous program were included in these summaries. These data represent historical employment information and do not guarantee future employment prospects for graduates of this program. They are for informational purposes only. Data were collected through either alumni surveys or internet research.
Career Options
Our current students, alumni and faculty lead and serve on numerous international, national, non-governmental organizations (NGO) and regional bodies dedicated to protecting the environment and improving well-being.
Alumni on Success
Glen Hearns
Job Title
Self Employed
Employer
Self Employed
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Doctor of Philosophy in Resources, Environment and Sustainability (PhD). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
This program went through a name change in previous years that may have included curriculum changes. It was previously known as: Doctor of Philosophy in Resource Management and Environmental Studies until 2015. Historical data on this page may include data collected under the previous name(s) of the program.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
49
69
90
62
71
Offers
8
6
10
9
14
New Registrations
2
5
8
8
11
Total Enrolment
47
50
49
52
57
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Resources, Environment and Sustainability (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Boyd, David
(Human rights)
Chan, Kai
(Natural environment sciences; Human Ecology; Ecology and Quality of the Environment; Social and Cultural Factors of Environmental Protection; Applied Ethics; Values and Lifestyles; Sustainable Development; conservation finance; Conservation science; cultural ecosystem services; Ecosystem services; environmental assessment; environmental values; incentive programs; payments for ecosystem services; resilience; social-ecological systems; sustainability science)
Chang, Stephanie
(All other social sciences, n.e.c.)
Donner, Simon
(Atmospheric sciences; Oceanography; Other media and communication; Climate Science; climate change impacts; Climate policy; Coastal Ecosystems; Marine Environment; Climate modelling and prediction; Science communication; Net-zero emissions; Coral reefs)
Gantois, Joséphine
(Human Dimensions of Biodiversity Conservation)
Giang, Amanda
(Atmospheric sciences; Mechanical engineering; Natural environment sciences; Atmospheric Pollutants; Chemical Pollutants; Climate Changes and Impacts; Public Policies; Social and Cultural Factors of Environmental Protection)
Harris, Leila
(Critical identity, ethnic and race studies; Gender, sexuality and education; Human rights, justice, and ethical issues; Africa; Development Policies; Drinking Water; Environmental justice; equity and social justice; Ethics and Fundamental Issues of Law and Justice; Fresh Water; Gender Relationship; gender and social difference; Ghana; International development; participatory resource management; Resources Management; Social Contract and Social Justice; Social and Cultural Factors of Environmental Protection; South Africa; Turkey and Middle East; Water; water governance; water politics)
Johnson, Mark
(Geology; Natural environment sciences; Agriculture; Biogeochemistry; Carbon cycle; Climate Changes and Impacts; data science; Ecohydrology; Ecology and Quality of the Environment; Fresh Water; Ground Water and Water Tables; Hydrological Cycle and Reservoirs; Land and Soil; land use; Running Water Hydrosystem; Water and Sustainability)
Kandlikar, Milind
(Climate change impacts and adaptation; Product life cycle; Environmental policy; Research, science and technology policy; Environmental impacts; Climate Change and energy transition; Technological Risk; Technology and  Development)
Kremen, Claire
(Natural environment sciences; Zoology; agroecological farming systems; Reconciliation of agricultural land use with biodiversity conservation; sustainable landscapes)
Oberg, Gunilla
(History and philosophy of science (including non-historical philosophy of science); Other earth and related environmental sciences, n.e.c.; Indigenous peoples environmental knowledge; All other social sciences, n.e.c.; Science and knowledge production; Scientific controversies surrounding the evaluation of chemical risk (epistemic and ontological); Indigenous data justice as related to chemicals regulation & management; Social and cultural factors of chemicals regulation & management; Vocabulary, Knowledge, Significance and Thought Building; environmental health; The challenge of teaching science as a process and not a deliverer of irrefutable facts; The role of deliberation in science)
Ramankutty, Navin
(Natural environment sciences; Public administration; Public policy; Public security policy; Agriculture; Climate Changes and Impacts; Climate impacts; Environment and Society; Global food security; Land use change; Sustainable agriculture)
Satterfield, Theresa
(Sustainable development, environmental health, First Nation & land management, social and cultural consequences of contamination)
Wittman, Hannah
(Sociology and related studies; Farming systems research; food sovereignty; Sustainable agriculture; socio-ecological systems; Agroecology)
Zhao, Jiaying
(Natural environment sciences; Psychology and cognitive sciences)
Doctoral Citations
A
doctoral citation
summarizes the nature of the independent research, provides a high-level overview of the study, states the significance of the work and says who will benefit from the findings in clear, non-specialized language, so that members of a lay audience will understand it.
Citation contains
Items
10
25
50
100
Year
Citation
2024
Dr. Gogoi examined how satellite-based crop yield estimation in the Canadian Prairie region can be improved by using new multi-source, multi-variable datasets, and machine and deep learning methods. Her studies have improved our ability to estimate crop yields at fine spatial scales and to forecast them a few months ahead of time.
2024
Dr. Ruder examined the conditions under which novel agricultural technologies can support transitions to more just and sustainable food systems in Canada. Her research offered new ways to evaluate impacts of technologies, made policy recommendations, and informed a toolkit of public scholarship resources for governing data and technology.
2024
Dr. Chignell combined human and physical geography to analyze the relationships among biodiversity conservation, water, and the politics of environmental science in Ethiopia. His work demonstrates how disparate methods across the sciences and humanities can be brought together to produce new ways of understanding and responding to complex eco-social questions.
2024
Guided by members of the Nuxalk Nation, Dr. Gavenus studied the ways fisheries governance can affect food justice. She found that the governance of First Nations fisheries imposed by the Canadian State contributes to multiple food injustices. These findings emphasize the importance of reassertions of Indigenous fisheries governance to food justice.
2024
Dr. Braich studied the impact of climate change on agriculture in the Prairies, both past and into the future.  She found warming trends have already negatively impacted yields, and by 2050 yields could be reduced by more than 20%. Her findings emphasize the need for adaptation planning to address climate impacts in this key agricultural region.
2023
Dr. López de la Lama explored the deep bonds Peruvian landowners share with nature through privately protected areas (PPAs). She unveiled diverse intrinsic, instrumental, and relational values driving their commitment to conservation. Amid structural challenges and tenure insecurities, these relationships underscore the importance of citizen-led conservation.
2023
How do conservation actors make decisions in practice? Dr. Stevens shows that governance of protected areas is changing to reflect new commitments to human rights, collaboration and evidence. Her analyses highlight diverse solutions to the biodiversity crisis, offering policy-relevant insights for more just and effective community-led conservation.
2023
Dr. Kim introduced a new theory to understand terrestrial evaporation from a land-atmosphere coupling perspective. The proposed theory effectively estimates evaporation and its upper limit, which he evaluated using field observations and climate simulations. This study improves hydrologic analyses particularly in warming climatic conditions.
2021
Dr. Sandeep's dissertation showed considerations of just energy transition for fossil fuel workers and their communities. This knowledge will aid in a more holistic understanding of the implications of fossil fuel industry declines on communities, by incorporating spatial, temporal, and justice aspects of transition.
2020
Dr. McDowell examined how people living in the Nepal Himalayas and Peruvian Andes are adapting to changes in glacial hydrology. His work makes substantive contributions to how adaptation is studied in mountain areas, as well as what we know about and can do to address adaptation needs in mountain communities at the frontlines of climate change.
Pages
1
2
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
Examining Canadian governance of First Nations fisheries along the coast of British Columbia through a theoretical lens of food justice
A critical physical geography of conservation, water, and scientific research in the Bale Mountains, Ethiopia
Beyond borders : assessing climate risks in globalized food systems
The influence of climate change on crop yields in the Canadian Prairies
Advancing equity in water demand management among local governments in British Columbia, Canada
Crop yield estimation in the Canadian Prairies : assessing the relative importance of scale, satellite and biophysical data
Agricultural data governance, data justice, and the politics of novel agri-food technologies in Canada
Understanding relationships between people and nature in the context of privately protected areas in Peru
Messaging for wildlife conservation : leveraging attitudes, intentions, and actions for transformative change
Inequality in global access to food and its implications for climate change and Sustainable Development Goals
Interactions between the land surface and the near-surface atmosphere : implications for evaporative demand and evapotranspiration under a changing climate
Exploring complexity in changing practices of care : a mixed methods inquiry into rights, relations, and knowledge in protected area conservation
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Arts in Resources, Environment and Sustainability (MA)
Master of Science in Resources, Environment and Sustainability (MSc)
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), Sustainability
Further Information
Specialization
Resources, Environment and Sustainability
Resources, Environment and Sustainability fosters sustainable futures through integrated research and learning concerning the linkages among human and natural systems and supports decision making for local to global scales. RES provides a home for graduate students focusing on the integration of the biophysical (ecological), socio-economic, and political realities of resource management within the context of a sustainable, healthy environment.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/resources-environment-and-sustainability
Program Website
https://ires.ubc.ca/graduate-program/prospective-students/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Science
Academic Unit
Institute for Resources, Environment & Sustainability
Program Identifier
VGDPHD-VN2
Classification
Natural environment sciences
Environmental engineering
Sustainable agricultural development
Environment and natural resources economics
Sustainability management
Sustainable development and policy
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 October 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 December 2024
International Applicant Deadline
15 December 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubcires/
https://www.instagram.com/ubcires/
https://twitter.com/ubcires/
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCtS3UmbPmo_21-a7EJw3q3Q/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Gopal Khanal
The University of British Columbia (UBC) stood out to me as the ideal place to pursue my graduate studies for several reasons. UBC’s strong commitment to sustainability and its global reputation for excellence in conservation science were crucial factors in my decision. I was particularly drawn to...
Bulgan Batdorj
I am honored and grateful to be a part of the UBC community. The Institute of Resources, Environment and Sustainability has provided an ideal setting to explore critical issues in resource governance. I am thankful for my supervisor, Dr. Nadja Kunz, and for many outstanding professors and peers who...
Nicole (Nikki) Kaechele
First and foremost, because Terre Satterfield was at UBC and I wanted to learn with her. I knew that studying at UBC would offer a truly multidisciplinary experience, and that the Institute for Resources, Environment and Sustainability (IRES) would support the kind of research I wanted to do. I was...
Manvi Bhalla
I chose UBC for its strong interdisciplinary focus and commitment to social justice. UBC’s Public Scholars Initiative and its emphasis on collaborative, community-based research made it the ideal place to pursue my PhD. Additionally, UBC’s renowned expertise in environmental justice and health...
1 of 6
next ›
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver