Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-electrical-computer-engineering

Doctor of Philosophy in Electrical and Computer Engineering
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Philosophy in Electrical and Computer Engineering (PhD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Electrical and Computer Engineering Program is for students interested in pursuing advanced studies and research in Biomedical Technologies, Communications Systems, Computer and Software Systems, Energy Systems, or Micro and Nano Technologies. Applicants to the program must have a high scholastic standing and must have demonstrated an aptitude for research to be admitted to the Ph.D. program, as the program is designed to develop the ability for independent research.
Electrical and Computer Engineers develop computing systems, from chip architecture to mobile applications, to communications protocols as well as the energy systems to allow these devices and all other electrical systems to function. The discipline has a huge impact on society because it helps to design the systems we use in everything from health to finance to safety.
In this program students can choose to contribute to research on technologies very close to or already in the market or technologies that are in the early stages of research such as quantum computing or carbon nanotubes.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Electrical and Computer Engineering is one of the largest graduate programs at The University of British Columbia with over 75 faculty members and 400 students. All of our faculty members lead distinguished research programs. The faculty members also collaborate with colleagues in the Faculty of Medicine and Faculty of Science as well as with industry leaders. These collaborations allow our students to work beside world-leaders in their area of interest. Our students use cutting-edge technologies at The University of British Columbia’s many research facilities and centres of excellence as well as in the field.
Every year, our department admits students to the PhD program from around the globe.  We currently have students enrolled from Argentina, Australia, Canada, China, Egypt, Hong Kong, India, Iran, Nigeria, Pakistan, South Korea ,Taiwan ,Turkey, and Vietnam.
For myself, the draw of engineering has always been about solving exceptionally challenging or previously unexplored design problems. Graduate studies felt like a gateway to working on the types of engineering projects that really interest me. Vancouver has always been the city that I consider home, getting to both return to the place I love while studying at a world-class university was not an opportunity to pass up.
Ian Hill
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Applied Science
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Dissertation
Academic Unit
Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering
Specialization
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
At least one of the required reference letters submitted to an application must be an academic reference. If all three reference letters are professional, it will be noted on your application that you do not meet this department requirement.
Applicants are required to upload PDF versions of their Official Transcripts from every post-secondary institution (college, university, etc.) that they have attended, showing both sides of the transcript document to include the university grading scale.  All transcripts must be official and signed/endorsed by the university in order to be accepted. Uploading Secondary/High School transcripts is not necessary.
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
Admission to the PhD Program with a Previous Course and Thesis-based Master's Degree
Applicants applying should have:
- A recognized course and thesis-based Master’s degree which includes graduate level courses and a written thesis
- References should include a detailed letter from the thesis supervisor
- North American degree holders must have an overall average of B+ (76% at UBC) in your master’s degree program
- Non-North American degree holders must review the academic entrance requirements for students from your country at the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies.
- Applicants who have completed a degree by research only may have to complete a year of additional coursework as part of their Ph.D. program.
Admission to the PhD Program with a Previous Undergraduate Degree
This is also known as a direct entry PhD. In addition to the usual M.A.Sc. requirements, you must have:
- A first class standing in your bachelor’s degree and evidence of prior research ability. First class standing is indicated for each nation by UBC G+PS guidelines (80% minimum or equivalent for Canadian institutions). It is understood that such a grade-average is a minimum requirement and depending on the overall applicant profile, higher grades can be expected.
- Hard evidence of research experience and ability, by way of previous research internships, for example. Ideally, you should be a co-author on a manuscript or paper accepted in a high visibility, rigorously peer reviewed academic venue, e.g., an internationally recognized journal, or, in certain disciplines (especially computer and software engineering), top tier conferences.
- Prospective supervisors of direct entry students must submit a maximum one page explanation of why the student is deemed sufficiently-prepared to be directly admitted to the Ph.D. program.
Admission to the PhD Program with a Previous Course-based Master's Degree
In addition to the usual M.A.Sc. requirements, you must have:
- Hard evidence of research experience and ability, by way of previous research internships, for example. Ideally, you should be a co-author on a manuscript or paper accepted in a high visibility, rigorously peer reviewed academic venue, e.g., an internationally recognized journal, or, in certain disciplines (especially computer and software engineering), top tier conferences.
- Prospective supervisors of students with a previous course-based masters degree must submit a maximum one page explanation of why the student is deemed sufficiently-prepared to be directly admitted to the Ph.D. program.
Other Requirements
GRE scores are not mandatory for applying to our PhD program. You are welcome to submit GRE scores if you have them, to provide further support to your application. Please ask GRE to submit their examination report to UBC using the institution code 0965 (UBC).
Applicants who have recently completed a degree in one of the following countries do not need to submit a language score. Degrees must have been completed within the past 5 years of the date of application to our department in order for this language score requirement to be waived.
Australia, Botswana, Canada, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Ireland, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, Malta, Namibia, New Zealand, Nigeria, Singapore, South Africa, Tanzania, United Kingdom, United States, Zambia, Zimbabwe, and the English-speaking countries of the West Indies.
Other applicants, including Canadians, who have completed their most recent degree in other countries, must submit a current TOEFL or Academic IELTS score. We will not waive this requirement for you. Our department does not consider conditional admission in the case of pending English language training.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 October 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
31 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
31 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
31 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
31 January 2025
January 2026 Intake
Application Open Date
01 May 2025
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 June 2025
Transcript Deadline:
15 June 2025
Referee Deadline:
15 June 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 June 2025
Transcript Deadline:
15 June 2025
Referee Deadline:
15 June 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Electrical and Computer Engineering (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Faculty members will review applications based on research interests and availability of student positions during the application/evaluation process.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
From September 2024 all full-time students in UBC-Vancouver PhD programs will be provided with a funding package of at least $24,000 for each of the first four years of their PhD. The funding package may consist of any combination of internal or external awards, teaching-related work, research assistantships, and graduate academic assistantships. Please note that many graduate programs provide funding packages that are substantially greater than $24,000 per year. Please check with your prospective graduate program for specific details of the funding provided to its PhD students.
UBC has launched Canada's first Blockchain training pathway for graduate students. The Graduate Pathway on Blockchain and Decentralized Trust Technologies will be a 12-credit non-degree training program that augments existing Master's and Phd programs. Additional funding may be available for students as part of the Blockchain pathway.
Average Funding
Based on the criteria outlined below,
102
students within this program were included in this study because they received funding through UBC in the form of teaching, research, academic assistantships or internal or external awards averaging
$38,314
.
58 students received Teaching Assistantships. Average TA funding based on 58 students was $7,360.
93 students received Research Assistantships. Average RA funding based on 93 students was $23,523.
16 students received Academic Assistantships. Average AA funding based on 16 students was $4,758.
101 students received internal awards. Average internal award funding based on 101 students was $9,659.
10 students received external awards. Average external award funding based on 10 students was $24,100.
Study Period: Sep 2022 to Aug 2023 - average funding for full-time PhD students enrolled in three terms per academic year in this program across years 1-4, the period covered by
UBC's Minimum Funding Guarantee
. Averages might mask variability in sources and amounts of funding received by individual students. Beyond year 4, funding packages become even more individualized.
Review methodology
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Outcomes
211 students graduated between 2005 and 2013. Of these, career information was obtained for 200 alumni (based on research conducted between Feb-May 2016):
RI (Research-Intensive) Faculty: typically tenure-track faculty positions (equivalent of the North American Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor positions) in PhD-granting institutions
TI (Teaching-Intensive) Faculty: typically full-time faculty positions in colleges or in institutions not granting PhDs, and teaching faculty at PhD-granting institutions
Term Faculty: faculty in term appointments (e.g. sessional lecturers, visiting assistant professors, etc.)
Sample Employers in Higher Education
University of British Columbia (9)
British Columbia Institute of Technology (3)
Langara College (2)
University of Tehran (2)
University of California - San Diego (2)
Chinese Academy of Science (2)
University of Calgary (2)
Indian Institute of Technology Delhi (2)
Qatar University (2)
University of Alberta
Sample Employers Outside Higher Education
Amazon (6)
Intel Corporation (5)
Qualcomm (4)
Microsoft (4)
BC Hydro (4)
BC Cancer Agency (3)
Point Grey Research (3)
BroadbandTV Corp. (3)
AMD (2)
Fortinet Technologies Inc. (2)
Sample Job Titles Outside Higher Education
Software Development Engineer (7)
Engineer (6)
Research Scientist (4)
Research Engineer (4)
Senior Consultant (3)
Senior Engineer (3)
Embedded Software Engineer (3)
Director (3)
Chief Executive Officer (3)
Software Developer (3)
PhD Career Outcome Survey
You may view the full report on career outcomes of UBC PhD graduates on
outcomes.grad.ubc.ca
.
Disclaimer
These data represent historical employment information and do not guarantee future employment prospects for graduates of this program. They are for informational purposes only. Data were collected through either alumni surveys or internet research.
Career Options
The Doctoral program in Electrical and Computer Engineering prepares students for employment directly after completing the degree or to pursue further a career in research at a public institution. Some of our recent graduates are now working with Google, Microsoft, Facebook, Intel, Samsung, D-wave, BC Hydro, Bell Mobility, Sierra Wireless, PMC-Sierra, TELUS, Bank of Montreal, BC Children’s Hospital, The Government of Canada, Drobo, Siemens Canada, Celestica, Cisco, Alpha Technologies, etc. Many of our M.A.Sc. graduates have also gone on to pursue their Ph.D. with us at UBC. Some graduates have completed their PhDs at institutions such as Stanford, MIT, UC Berkeley and The Chinese University of Hong Kong. Some of our graduate students have also founded companies; a recent example is Veridae that was acquired by Tektronix.
Alumni on Success
Michel AlSharidah
Job Title
Assistant Professor
Employer
Public Authority for Applied Education and Training
Michael Wrinch
Job Title
President
Employer
Hedgehog Technologies Inc.
Mehrdad Fatourechi
Job Title
Chief Technology Officer (CTO)
Employer
BroadbandTV Corp
Mohamed Sultan Mohamed Ali
Job Title
Associate Professor
Employer
Universiti Teknologi Malaysia
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Doctor of Philosophy in Electrical and Computer Engineering (PhD). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
216
221
224
237
214
Offers
46
39
47
58
41
New Registrations
30
26
28
34
25
Total Enrolment
172
180
175
169
169
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
80%
based on 170 students admitted between 2011 - 2014. Based on 88 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 3.07 years and the maximum time is 9.9 years with an average of
5.62 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Upcoming Doctoral Exams
Monday, 4 November 2024 - 9:30am - Room 200
Mustafa Hammood
Silicon Photonic Bragg Grating-Based, Sub-Wavelength, and Adiabatic Filters
Friday, 15 November 2024 - 4:00pm - 3028, Fred Kaiser Building, 2332 Main Mall
Dian Ross
Assemblage: Digital Twins, Hardware Oracles & Distributed Ledger Technologies - A Provenance Solution for the Digital Age
Wednesday, 27 November 2024 - 9:00am - Room 200
Bo Chen
Real-time Electricity Market Pricing Methods Incorporating Power System Frequency Dynamics
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Electrical and Computer Engineering (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Faculty members will review applications based on research interests and availability of student positions during the application/evaluation process.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Aamodt, Tor
(computer architecture, optimizing compilers, Computer architecture, Microarchitecture and programming models for energy efficient computer accelerators)
Abolmaesumi, Purang
(Electrical engineering, computer engineering, and information engineering; Medical and biomedical engineering; Artificial Intelligence; Biomedical Engineering; Biomedical Technologies; Cancer Imaging; Computer Assisted Interventions; Image Guided Surgery; Machine Learning; Medical Imaging; Surgical Robotics; Ultrasound Imaging)
Beznosov, Konstantin
(Electrical engineering, computer engineering, and information engineering; computer security and privacy; mobile security and privacy; online social networks security and privacy; usable security and privacy)
Chen, Yu Christine
(Engineering and technology; energy systems; Electric power system modelling, control, and operation; Renewable energy sources; electricity markets)
Cheung, Karen
(Electrical engineering, computer engineering, and information engineering; Medical and biomedical engineering; additive manufacturing; BioMEMS; Biomedical Technologies; biosensors; microfluidics; neural interfaces; organ-on-chip; Tissue Engineering)
Chrostowski, Lukas
(Electrical engineering, computer engineering, and information engineering; Optics and Photonics; Micro and Nanoelectronics; Nanotechnologies; Manufacturing Processes; biophotonics; biosensors; optics; optoelectronics; photonics; quantum computing; semiconductor lasers; silicon photonics)
Cretu, Edmond
(Nano-technology; Electronics; Medical and biomedical engineering; microsystems and nanotechnology; sensor clusters and networks; Signal processing and control; Ultrasound Imaging; Microinstrumentation; Inertial measurement units; wearable systems)
Desjardins, Adrien
(Imaging and sensing, Robotics, Photonics, Ultrasound, Machine learning, Marine and biomedical applications, Development of imaging and sensing modalities and autonomous robotics, Biomedical Technologies, Emerging Micro/Nano Technologies)
Di Matteo, Olivia
(Quantum information, computation and communication; Quantum computing: compilation, circuits and algorithms; Tomography and characterization; Open-source quantum software)
Dumont, Guy A
(biomedical engineering; automatic drug delivery; mobile health; global health; anesthesia; physiological monitoring;, Adaptive control, predictive control, control of distributed parameters systems, advanced process control, applications of wavelet analysis, biomedical applications of control, pulp and paper process control)
Fedorova, Alexandra
(design of system software: the software that manages the hardware and decides how to allocate its resources to applications; building better performance tools.)
Fels, S Sidney
(Human computer interaction, human 3D biomechanical modeling, speech synthesis, medical applications of modeling, computer vision, interactive arts and music)
Garbi, Rafeef
(Bioinformatics; Electrical engineering, computer engineering, and information engineering; Medical and biomedical engineering; Artificial Intelligence; Biomedical Engineering; Biomedical Technologies; Computer Vision; Deep Learning; image analysis; Imaging; Machine Learning; Medical Image Computing)
Gopalakrishnan, Sathish
(computer and software systems, real-time and embedded computing (computer systems as part of the real world); cyber-physical systems, Real-time systems, distributed systems, resource management)
Ivanov, Andre
(microelectronics; integrated circuits, computer chip design, smart grid, engineering curriculum, Computer and Software Systems, Emerging Micro/Nano Technologies)
Jaeger, Nicolas A
(Integrated-optics, fiber-optics, optical sensors, optical measurement of voltage and current in power substations, ultrahigh-speed electro-optic modulators, ultrahigh-speed measurement techniques)
Jatskevich, Juri
(Power and energy systems, smart energy grids, power electronic systems and converter circuits, electrical machines and drives, controls, electromagnetic transients, computer modeling and simulation, distributed and parallel simulation)
Lampe, Lutz
(Communication Systems, Wireless Communications, Mobile Communications, , Communication and information theory, Smart Grid, Grid diagnostics, Ultra-wideband (UWB), Wireless sensor networks, Localization and tracking, RFID, Cognitive radio, Power line communications, Compressed sensing, Machine Learning)
Lemieux, Guy
(vector processors, parallel programming, programmable logic devices (PLDs, FPGAs), computer architecture, computer arithmetic, custom computing hardware, computer engineering, Programmable logic and computing systems, multiprocessor and computer architecture)
Leung, Cyril
(Wireless communication systems; digital communication networks; Wireless communications; network security; ageless aging technologies)
Li, Xiaoxiao
(Machine Learning; Deep Learning; Explainable AI; Trustworthy AI; Privacy and Security; Medical image analysis; Bioinformatics)
Liao, Renjie
Lis, Mieszko
(Computer and Software Systems)
Madden, John
(Electrical engineering, computer engineering, and information engineering; Medical and biomedical engineering; artificial muscle; electrochemical devices; electronic skin; Functional and Intelligent Materials; medical devices; smart materials; supercapacitors; wearables)
Marti, Jose
(Computer modelling of response to disasters, Infrastructures Interdependencies Simulation (I2Sim) project, electric power, Energy systems)
Pages
1
2
3
next ›
last »
Open Research Positions
This list of possible research projects is non-exhaustive. It only shows positions that are specifically advertised in the G+PS website.
Funded PhD Position in Data-driven Control of Energy Systems
Doctoral Citations
A
doctoral citation
summarizes the nature of the independent research, provides a high-level overview of the study, states the significance of the work and says who will benefit from the findings in clear, non-specialized language, so that members of a lay audience will understand it.
Citation contains
Items
10
25
50
100
Year
Citation
2024
Health monitoring is essential to enable timely and appropriate care for newborns. However, this is limited in low-to-middle-income countries due to insufficient resources and health staff. Dr. Grooby examined accessible newborn health monitoring. He developed software to monitor heart and lung health using digital stethoscopes and video cameras.
2024
Dr. Schmidt designed and researched methods for efficiently tracking organ surfaces during surgery. He designed multiple algorithms to track tissue motion along with a dataset to evaluate performance for applications of tissue tracking. His research in efficient tracking will enable applications in surgical robotics, such as autonomy.
2024
Dr. Sallinen developed a computational model for analyzing data about evolving activities on networks, like social media interactions or financial transactions. His work advances the capabilities of real-time investigation and analysis into large scale data.
2024
Dr. Askari has developed a minimally invasive near-infrared spectroscopy sensor for spinal cord hemodynamic assessment in spinal cord injury patients. This innovative sensor aids in managing hemodynamics and has been successfully implemented and implanted. The sensor was able to provide the regional hemodynamic metrics of the spinal cord.
2024
Dr. Kalia devised computer vision techniques for augmented reality in robotic surgery, aligning patients' MRI or Ultrasound images with the surgical camera view. This enables clinicians to do a real-time assessment of cancer margins and anatomy, to optimize clinical decisions and thus, reducing the incidents of incomplete cancer removal.
2024
Dr. Hashemi developed a fast, non-invasive method to measure the elasticity of the tissue through ultrasound elastography. She applied her ultrafast elastography method in the liver ultrasound images to detect the liver fibrosis disease for more accurate tissue abnormality detection and reducing the ultrasound exam time substantially.
2024
Dr. Pashaei designed and fabricated novel solar cell devices made with materials as thin as one atom. He incorporated various engineering methods to make them more practical. His work proposes innovative designs to make efficient solar cells.
2024
Dr. Jafaryrabanybastany devised a method to capture and extract features of scalp SD, noting its precursor role to seizures and proximity to the epileptic brain lesion. This work aids in intractable epilepsy diagnosis, paving the way for studies on stroke, traumatic brain trauma, and migraines.
2024
Dr. Setayesh utilized machine learning techniques for resource allocation in wireless communication systems. He proposed a deep learning framework for network slicing in radio access networks, a federated learning algorithm to address data and device heterogeneity issues, and a novel 360-degree video streaming approach in terahertz wireless systems.
2023
Dr. Park studied optical systems used in head-mounted augmented reality devices. The outcomes of his study include novel optics designs that can greatly reduce the size of augmented reality glasses and improve the image quality.
Pages
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
Resource allocation for eMBB and URLLC use cases in 5G and beyond cellular networks
Energy distribution of thermal electron emission
Printed circuit board parasitics in wide-bandgap applications : estimation, mitigation, and exploitation
Video-based human fall detection in indoor spaces for health monitoring
Efficient frequency synthesis using subsampling and serrodyne techniques
Applications of injection locking and phase interpolation in high-speed circuits
3D human pose estimation with self-supervision and learnable data generation
Parametric amplification and conversion with superconducting nanowire resonators
Collaborative fault diagnosis with decentralized knowledge inference in industrial internet of things
Development of compact multimodal two-photon and three-photon microscopy
Organic fibre-based arrays for proton radiotherapy applications
Efficient compression, human-inspired refocusing, and quality assessment of light field videos
Energy-efficient acceleration for autonomous robotics
Context-aware minor-embedding for quantum annealing processors
Machine learning-based algorithms design for network slicing, federated learning, and 360° video streaming in wireless systems
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Applied Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering (MASc)
Master of Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering (MEng)
Same Academic Unit
Master of Engineering Leadership in Dependable Software Systems (MEL)
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), Engineering
Further Information
Specialization
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Electrical and Computer Engineering provides advanced study and research for graduates of electrical or computer engineering, engineering physics, physics, computer science or other related subjects. Facilities are provided for research in: communications and signal processing; computers and computer applications; digital system design, VLSI design and software engineering; electromagnetics; power systems and power electronics; solid state devices; microelectronics, nanoelectronics and optoelectronics; robotics and telerobotics; and systems and control.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/electrical-and-computer-engineering
Program Website
https://ece.ubc.ca/graduate/programs/doctoral-program/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Applied Science
Academic Unit
Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering
Program Identifier
VGDPHD-HA
Classification
Electrical energy systems
Computer engineering
Communications and networks technologies
Data analytics and signal processing
Electromagnetics, photonics and optics
Electronics
Systems control and automation
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 October 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
15 January 2025
January 2026 Intake
Application Open Date
01 May 2025
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 June 2025
International Applicant Deadline
01 June 2025
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ECEUBC/
https://twitter.com/UBCEngineering
https://www.youtube.com/user/ECEUBC
https://www.youtube.com/user/UBCEngineering
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Esther Roorda
Firstly, UBC has a great selection of classes and world class faculty who are engaged in interesting research in engineering, sustainability and education. I feel particularly appreciative and lucky to have had the opportunity to work with both my current supervisor (Dr. Sathish Gopalakrishnan) and...
Zitao Chen
UBC is a vibrant research community and provides numerous support to ensure the students can succeed in their pursuit of knowledge. At UBC, I also have the opportunity to work with a group of excellent researchers and gain tremendous mentorship from my advisor (Prof. Karthik Pattabiraman). Hence, I...
Esther Roorda
UBC is one of the top universities in Canada for reconfigurable computing and FPGA research. It has world-class faculty and a good selection of interesting classes. Visiting campus also helped me to make this decision: UBC has an amazing campus and Vancouver is a really beautiful city.
1 of 2
next ›
Why should you choose UBC?
From academic excellence and modern facilities to our diverse degree program listings to being named one of the “most innovative universities” by Reuters in 2019, UBC has a lot to offer.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC