Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-hispanic-studies

Doctor of Philosophy in Hispanic Studies (PhD)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Philosophy in Hispanic Studies (PhD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Graduate Program in Hispanic Studies offers a dynamic curriculum focusing on a contextualized knowledge of the languages, literatures, and cultures of Latin America, Spain, and other Spanish-speaking communities within the US and Canada.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Cutting-Edge Research:
The doctoral program in Hispanic Studies provides a wide variety of graduate courses taught by a growing team of faculty members specializing in innovative research, from Medieval Spanish literature to 21st-century Latin American and Caribbean cultures. The program offers solid academic training through our research clusters, reading groups, and research seminar. Students may participate in or even lead these initiatives, both within the department and in interdisciplinary centres, such as Green College, the Public Humanities Hub, and the Liu Institute for Global Issues.
Professional Development:
We provide a comprehensive Teaching Assistant training program as well as academic and professional development workshops—on grant writing, publishing, and conference attendance, among other topics—to help graduate students diversify their skillset and make an impact on society. 70% of graduates from our PhD program successfully landed careers in academia according to a career outcome survey.
Community Involvement:
Our annual Graduate Student Symposium allows graduate students to present their research to the entire Department. The biennial FHIS Graduate Student Conference, organized by the graduate students themselves with the assistance of faculty members, offers a platform to share research results with the wider academic community, network with local and international peers, and plan large-scale academic events. Through the FHIS Learning Centre, graduate students may also volunteer as tutors to help undergraduate students become proficient in the languages that are taught in our Department. In addition, the FHIS Cultural Club encourages students to discuss noteworthy social and cultural phenomena with our tight-knit community, engaging with current debates in our disciplines.
The interdisciplinary approach and the innovative research conducted by the Hispanist cohort of professors in my department and the opportunity I was offered to be a teaching and research assistant both for Spanish and Italian courses attracted me to my program.
Mirta Roncagalli
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Arts
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Dissertation
Academic Unit
Department of French, Hispanic & Italian Studies
Specialization
Hispanic Studies
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Meet a Representative
French, Hispanic and Italian Studies Online Information Session
Online
Date
:
Friday, 15 November 2024
Time
:
10:00
to
11:00
The Department of French, Hispanic and Italian Studies is hosting an online information session for prospective graduate students. The presentation, led by the Graduate Advisor and the Associate Graduate Advisor, will provide information about our graduate programs, including course offerings, research opportunities, career outcomes, financial aid, and the admissions process. Two current graduate students will also share their experiences at UBC and there will be time for a Q&A. Join us to learn more about our MA and PhD programs in French and Hispanic Studies and to have your questions answered live!
Register
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 90
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
10 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
24 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
24 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
10 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
24 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
24 January 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Hispanic Studies (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. However, it is not necessary for applicants to contact faculty members prior to their application.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Highlights
We invite you to learn more about our research by visiting our departmental
research spotlight
webpage.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
All doctoral students are guaranteed a minimum funding package of $24,000 per year for the first five years of full-time study through a combination of Teaching Assistantships, Research Assistantships, awards, and scholarships. We offer a variety of additional financial aid options, including a Graduate Research Grant to conduct doctoral research and a Graduate Student Travel Grant to attend conferences abroad.
Average Funding
Based on the criteria outlined below,
8
students within this program were included in this study because they received funding through UBC in the form of teaching, research, academic assistantships or internal or external awards averaging
$34,866
.
7 students received Teaching Assistantships. Average TA funding based on 7 students was $10,840.
4 students received Research Assistantships. Average RA funding based on 4 students was $4,717.
5 students received Academic Assistantships. Average AA funding based on 5 students was $2,450.
8 students received internal awards. Average internal award funding based on 8 students was $18,587.
1 student received external awards valued at $6,667.
Study Period: Sep 2022 to Aug 2023 - average funding for full-time PhD students enrolled in three terms per academic year in this program across years 1-4, the period covered by
UBC's Minimum Funding Guarantee
. Averages might mask variability in sources and amounts of funding received by individual students. Beyond year 4, funding packages become even more individualized.
Review methodology
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Outcomes
9 students graduated between 2005 and 2013: 1 graduate is seeking employment; for 1 we have no data (based on research conducted between Feb-May 2016). For the remaining 7 graduates:
RI (Research-Intensive) Faculty: typically tenure-track faculty positions (equivalent of the North American Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor positions) in PhD-granting institutions
TI (Teaching-Intensive) Faculty: typically full-time faculty positions in colleges or in institutions not granting PhDs, and teaching faculty at PhD-granting institutions
Term Faculty: faculty in term appointments (e.g. sessional lecturers, visiting assistant professors, etc.)
Sample Employers in Higher Education
Mount Royal University
University of Lethbridge
University of Prince Edward Island
University of British Columbia
University of Aberdeen
Sample Employers Outside Higher Education
Davey Tree Expert Co.
Sample Job Titles Outside Higher Education
Area Manager
Interpreter, translator
PhD Career Outcome Survey
You may view the full report on career outcomes of UBC PhD graduates on
outcomes.grad.ubc.ca
.
Disclaimer
These data represent historical employment information and do not guarantee future employment prospects for graduates of this program. They are for informational purposes only. Data were collected through either alumni surveys or internet research.
Career Options
The PhD prepares students for a teaching and research career at the university level. Recent PhD graduates from the department have obtained positions at various universities, such as, the University of Lethbridge, Mount Royal College, Lakehead University, Carleton University, Mount Alison University, University of South Carolina, Rhode Island College, University of Aberdeen, and the University of Otago. Former students have also obtained positions in the public sector, such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Alumni on Success
Javier  Alvarez-Jaimes
Job Title
Associate Professor
Employer
North Carolina Central University
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Doctor of Philosophy in Hispanic Studies (PhD). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
5
14
11
10
6
Offers
1
3
3
4
2
New Registrations
1
2
1
3
2
Total Enrolment
14
16
15
13
18
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
67%
based on 9 students admitted between 2011 - 2014. Based on 8 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 3.41 years and the maximum time is 8.42 years with an average of
5.26 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Hispanic Studies (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. However, it is not necessary for applicants to contact faculty members prior to their application.
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Alvarez Moreno, Raul
(Literary or Artistic Works Analysis; Artistic and Literary Movements, Schools and Styles; Artistic and Literary Theories; Literary or Artistic Work Dissemination or Reception Contexts; Language, Knowledge, Significance and Thought Building; Medieval and Early Modern Iberian Literature and Culture (Celestina, picaresque novel, short story); Economy and Medieval Literature and Culture; Visual Culture in Medieval and Early Modern Spain; Relations between Language and Ideology; travel writing)
Beasley-Murray, Jon
(Latin American studies, social and political theory)
Beauchesne, Kim
(Colonialism; Latin America; Trans-Pacific Studies; Globalization)
Casas Aguilar, Anna
(Contemporary literatures; Spanish Cultural Studies; Catalan Literature and Culture; Gender Studies; Masculinities; Feminisms; Self-writing; Hispanic Cinemas)
Fernandez Utrera, Maria Soledad
(Peninsular contemporary literature and culture)
Lagresa-González, Elizabeth
(Languages and literature; Early modern Literature and Culture; Early Modern Drama; Early modern Visual and Material culture; Queer, Gender and Sexuality studies; Cross-cultural and Comparative studies)
Mitchell, Tamara
(Literary or Artistic Work Analysis; Artistic and Literary Theories; Political Ideologies; Contemporary Mexican Literature and Culture; Neoliberalism, Globalization, (Post-)National Politics; Political Philosophy, Critical Theory; Border and Diaspora Studies; Contemporary Central American Literature and Culture; Digital Humanities; Sound Studies)
Santos, Alessandra
(Cinema studies; Film, television and digital media; Latin American history; Latin American literatures; Spanish language; Artistic and Literary Analysis Models; Artistic and Literary Theories; Arts and Cultural Traditions; Arts and Technologies; Brazilian Literature and Culture; Comparative Literary and Cultural Studies; Latin American Literatures and Cultures; Modern and Contemporary Literatures and Cultures)
Victoriano, Ramon Antonio
(Caribbean literatures; Latin American literatures; Contemporary literatures; Hispanic Caribbean Literatures and Cultures; Latin American Contemporary Novel and Short Story; Caribbean Literatures)
Zhang, Gaoheng
(Intercultural and Ethnic Relationships; Cultural Exchanges; Migrations, Populations, Cultural Exchanges; Media and Society; Media Ethics; Media and Democratization; Migration Studies; Mobility Studies; Postcolonial Studies; Gender and Masculinity Studies; Race Theory; Film and Media Studies; Rhetoric and Communication Studies; Cultural Theory; Italian-Chinese relations; Italy's global networks; Modern and contemporary Italian literature and culture)
Doctoral Citations
A
doctoral citation
summarizes the nature of the independent research, provides a high-level overview of the study, states the significance of the work and says who will benefit from the findings in clear, non-specialized language, so that members of a lay audience will understand it.
Citation contains
Items
10
25
50
100
Year
Citation
2023
Dr. García Martínez developed the conceptual distinction between accumulation and cumulation. The former is a system of value built on the latter. He proposed that for our contemporary crisis, writing depicts a cumulation, a profuse pile-up, ever more resistant to the imposition of some kind of system of value.
2023
Dr. Castaneda studied narratives and aesthetics in 21st century Colombian films that challenged the longstanding invisibility of Afro-Colombian subjects. Her analysis helps in increasing awareness of anti-racist trends and the struggle to democratize the film representation regime in which the White/Mestizo aesthetics remains dominant.
2022
Dr. Moscoso-Garay studied the literature of the Rubber Extraction Time in the Amazonia (1879-1914). He examined how the industrial modernization helped to perpetuate stereotypes of gender and nature in the Amazon. His research challenges assumptions about discourses of modernity in the Amazonia
2022
Dr. Ortiz examines the role of the magazines in the early twentieth-century intellectual and cultural fields of the Andes. He analyzes how magazines become a dispositif that operates in-between the aesthetic and political ideologies discussed and disputed in the interplay of avant-garde movements, political revolutions, and social transformations.
2020
Dr. Oluic dissertation focuses on the creation of an imagined European community in the nineteenth century as posited by four thinkers and essayists from Spain and Italy. His research elaborates a link between nineteenth century Europeanism and the present, exploring the relations that define national and supranational sovereignty.
2020
Dr. Villacreses proposes a conceptual approach to understand literary production from a writer's global creative project. He incorporates media studies, the analysis of works of fiction, critical interventions, and public image into the overall literary study of an author. He applied this method in Latin American writers from the late 20th century.
2020
Dr. O'Regan explored the notion of community in literature of the Hispanic Caribbean diasporas, focusing on authors who write communities that escape classification. No longer identifying by race, culture, class, gender, or sexuality, these collectivities privilege difference over identity for a creative relationality.
2020
Dr. Miranda Barrios documented Latin American exiles' use of radio to recreate cultural and political identities and forge solidarity in a west coast Canadian context. Her work sheds light on the efforts of diasporic groups to use bilingual community media to engage diasporic and non-diasporic audiences in social, cultural, and political issues.
2020
Dr. Monje proposes a new approach to Colombian literature that focuses on the sociable nature of Literary Cafés, which unites a diversity of texts and analyzes them in a way that unveils writers' associations over time. This research shows an innovative way of reading literature, which can be applied in different spatio-temporal contexts.
2019
Dr. Tocco examined the role of the individual and the state in Latin American detective stories. His research contrasts these narratives with classic detective stories written in North America and the United Kingdom, offering new ways of reading them. Researchers and the general public interested in detective stories will benefit from his findings.
Pages
1
2
3
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
Affective environments : nature-culture in narratives about the Pampas and Patagonia (19th-21st centuries)
Letters of blood and fire : writing and accumulation in Latin America, from the chronicles of the Indies to the present
Imágenes afro : las políticas de representación de la subjetividad negra en el cine colombiano contemporáneo (2009-2017)
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Arts in Hispanic Studies (MA)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in French (PhD)
Master of Arts in French (MA)
Further Information
Specialization
Hispanic Studies
Hispanic Studies offers opportunities for advanced study in the literatures of Spain and Spanish America with courses ranging from topics in Spanish and Latin American literature and culture to the possibility of studying literary and cultural theory or issues in second-language instruction.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/hispanic-studies
Program Website
https://fhis.ubc.ca/graduate/hispanic-studies/hispanic-phd-program/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Arts
Academic Unit
Department of French, Hispanic & Italian Studies
Program Identifier
VGDPHD-L1
Classification
Latin American history
Spanish language
Other South and Central American languages
Medieval Literatures
Latin American literatures
Caribbean literatures
Cultural studies
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
10 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
10 January 2025
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/FHIS.UBC/
https://twitter.com/UBC_fhis
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
The city and the sea
Take a break from studying with opportunities at your fingertips. Whether you want to settle down in a café or take your research outdoors, we have a place for you.