Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/doctor-of-musical-arts-voice

Doctor of Musical Arts in Voice (DMA)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Musical Arts in Voice (DMA)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The D.M.A. program is designed for performers who have already reached a high level of proficiency and artistry in their fields and who may wish to teach at the university level. This program offers an opportunity to bring creative and performance achievement to a high level while enriching individual backgrounds with academic studies, including specialized training in music history and theory, and other areas. Candidates in music performance are expected to pursue supplementary individual projects in performance practice and music literature. Studies in music theory and music history are included.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The Voice and Opera Divisions offer many academic, performance and study opportunities.
The Opera Division is now presenting three main productions with the Vancouver Opera Orchestra at UBC every season, four Opera Tea Concerts, two Singer Behind the Song events where international stars of opera present a short recital, give an interview and conduct a masterclass with our students. As a connection to our community and future employers of our students, there are engagements with local community partners, including Vancouver Opera, Vancouver Symphony Orchestra, Bard on the Beach, and Vancouver Bach Choir. Yearly collaborative summer productions and tours with the European Music Academy in the Czech Republic, Opera Galas with the JK Tyl Opera House in Plzen, Czech Republic, operatic concerts for the Musikalischer Damenclub in Nürnberg, Germany, as well as occasional operatic concert tours to Asia, enrich the educational experience of our students. Doctoral students Will also participate in the Song Interpretation courses, Contemporary Players, Early Music Ensemble or Chamber Music to broaden their experience and assist them in preparation for their recital performances. DMSA students may choose to concentrate on a DMA with a concentration in operatic performance or with a concentration in Voice Performance. Both streams require performances in recitals and opera as well as rigorous academic courses in theory, musicology or ethno-musicology. The goal is to prepare the DMA candidate for a superior performance and academic career. Interdisciplinary research and collaborative performance projects are encouraged within the School or in the broader university environment.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Arts
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Thesis required
Academic Unit
School of Music
Specialization
Voice
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
School
School of Music
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
Applicants for the DMA in Voice cannot be admitted to the program without an in-person audition. Applicants who live at a significant distance from Vancouver can submit a pre-screening video audition by December 15 to determine whether a live audition is recommended by UBC Music faculty.
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 90
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
M.Mus degree, or equivalent
Course Requirements
i. Outstanding performing ability.
ii. M.Mus. degree, or equivalent.
iii. 100-level proficiency in three languages in addition to certified proficiency by the School in one of these.
iv. History courses in the area of specialization.
Document Requirements
An academic writing sample is required of all applicants to the DMA program in Voice Performance. In addition, a CV and repertoire list of all performances must be submitted.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
10 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
21 December 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
21 December 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Musical Arts in Voice (DMA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Applicants may contact the division chair, Prof. Nancy Hermiston (
nancy.hermiston@ubc.ca
) or the private studio teacher of their choice to discuss any questions about a potential application.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Highlights
The Opera Program is linked with research conducted by a team formed by Opera Director, Nancy Hermiston. It consists of some of UBC’s finest researchers, Dr. Janet Werker, Dr. Lara Boyd and Dr. Rachel Weber and two outstanding Postdoctoral students, Dr. Anja Xiaoxing-Cui and Dr. Negin Motamed Yeganeh. In the current study we are considering the effects of opera training on neuropsychological functions in opera trainees before and after an intensive participation in the Opera Workshop Course in which they prepare and professionally stage a full opera over a course of three-month segments during the year. We hypothesized that participation in this workshop would lead to increased executive function, attention, and verbal and visual memory. We further explore the neural underpinnings of any changes through the analysis of brain anatomy.
Research Focus
The mission at UBC Opera and Voice Divisions is to educate and promote gifted, young singers, while preparing them for international careers international academic appointments or key positions in private and government cultural organizations
Past productions of the Opera Division have included Le Nozze di Figaro, Die Zauberflöte, Die Gärtnerin aus Liebe, The Merry Wives of Windsor, Suor Angelica, Gianni Schicchi, La Bohème, Dido and Aeneas, The Merry Widow, The Bartered Bride, Manon, Eugene Onegin, Florence Lady with the Lamp, Falstaff, Don Giovanni, Cendrillon, Albert Herring, Rusalka, Les Contes d’Hoffmann, Robert Ward’s The Crucible, and the Western Canadian Premiere of Harry Somer’s Louis Riel, Gian Carlo Menotti’s opera, The Consul, Kevin Puts’ opera Silent Night, and the Canadian Premiere of Mieczysław Weinberg's opera, The Passenger. Many of these operas were accompanied by symposia in collaboration with other university departments, community organizations, international partners or governing officials from around the world.
The ensemble has performed with Canadian Heldentenor Ben Heppner at the Chan Centre of the Performing Arts, for a special broadcast on CBC Radio. They also produced the world premiere of the new Canadian opera The Dream Healer, by West Vancouver composer Lloyd Burritt, based on Timothy Findley’s novel Pilgrim, staring Judith Forst, Roelof Oostwoud, John Avey and conductor David Agler. In their series Singer Behind the Song they have hosted and performed with such international stars as Judith Forst, Renée Fleming, Sondra Radvanovsky, Angela Meade, Eric Owens, Luca Pisaroni and Jane Archibald.
Our Voice Performance graduates can be seen on the recital stages around the world. Many are contributing to the performance of Early Music and Contemporary Music Ensembles as well as vocal pedagogy research and leaders in studio teaching.
Research Facilities
The home of the Opera Division is the Old Auditorium. From the newly renovated historic Old Auditorium theatre, to the state-of-the-art Chan Centre for Performing Arts, one of North America's premier musical venues, and the intimate Roy Barnett Recital Hall, you will have the opportunity to train and grow as a professional musician in front of diverse audiences.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
Students admitted to the School of Music’s graduate programs are automatically considered for scholarships under the GSI (Graduate Support Initiative) program. These competitive awards typically range from $1,000 to 12,000 and are guaranteed for two to four years.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Outcomes
Career Options
Nearly all of our DMA Graduates hold prestigious appointments at universities and colleges throughout North America, South America, Africa and Asia. Graduates from the program perform with opera companies, professional chamber ensembles, touring ensembles, early music orchestras, and commercial music fields around the world.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Doctor of Musical Arts in Voice (DMA). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
4
8
10
5
5
Offers
0
2
4
2
3
New Registrations
0
0
3
2
2
Total Enrolment
5
7
9
6
4
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Musical Arts in Voice (DMA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Applicants may contact the division chair, Prof. Nancy Hermiston (
nancy.hermiston@ubc.ca
) or the private studio teacher of their choice to discuss any questions about a potential application.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
Doctoral Citations
A
doctoral citation
summarizes the nature of the independent research, provides a high-level overview of the study, states the significance of the work and says who will benefit from the findings in clear, non-specialized language, so that members of a lay audience will understand it.
Citation contains
Items
10
25
50
100
Year
Citation
2024
Dr. Jiang's concise teaching guide for early Chinese National opera is easily accessible for non-Chinese speaking opera singers. Through this guide, singers can rapidly acquire the skills needed to perform early Chinese national opera works. This study paves the way for non-Chinese opera singers to interpret early Chinese national opera works.
2019
Dr. Klippenstein provided a template for individuals and institutions interested in presenting an opera production of material from a Korean sung-storytelling tradition called pansori. His work furthers research such as this to become a common source for opera in the future and for this exposure to increase interest in pansori and similar traditions.
2017
Canadian opera has often been overlooked due to lack of access. To remedy this, Dr. Nakagawa created an anthology of arias from operas by Canadian composers and writers. Her work will increase exposure to Canadian opera for both performers and audiences, resulting in better recognition, appreciation and understanding of this genre.
Sample Thesis Submissions
A concise guide for teaching non-Chinese speaking singers to sing early Chinese national opera
New thoughts and methods for teaching Chinese art song in Western universities : [supplementary material]
New thoughts and methods for teaching Chinese art song in Western universities
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Music in Voice (MMUS)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Musical Arts in Composition (DMA)
Doctor of Musical Arts in Orchestral Instrument (DMA)
Doctor of Musical Arts in Piano (DMA)
Doctor of Philosophy in Music, Emphasis Ethnomusicology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Music, Emphasis Musicology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Music, Emphasis Theory (PhD)
Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Ethnomusicology (MA)
Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Musicology (MA)
Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Theory (MA)
Master of Music in Composition (MMUS)
Master of Music in Conducting (Emphasis Choral Conducting) (MMUS)
Master of Music in Conducting (Emphasis Orchestral Conducting) (MMUS)
Master of Music in Conducting (Emphasis Wind Conducting) (MMUS)
Master of Music in Guitar (MMUS)
Master of Music in Harpsichord (MMUS)
Master of Music in Historical Performance Practice (MMUS)
Master of Music in Opera (MMUS)
Master of Music in Orchestral Instrument (MMUS)
Master of Music in Organ (MMUS)
Master of Music in Piano (MMUS)
Further Information
Specialization
Voice
The Voice department offers many performance and study opportunities. In past years, we have held masterclasses with prestigious alumni like Ben Heppner, Judith Forst, and David Agler, as well as a host of other fine performers, coaches and conductors.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/music
Program Website
https://music.ubc.ca/graduate/doctor-of-musical-arts/voice/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Arts
Academic Unit
School of Music
Program Identifier
VGDDMA-YN
Classification
Music
Sound creation
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
10 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
International Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/UBC.School.of.Music/
https://www.instagram.com/ubc_music/
https://twitter.com/ubc_music/
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCrxOBzoHpZ9WyC783a0Wd-Q/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver