Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-pharmaceutical-sciences

Doctor of Philosophy in Pharmaceutical Sciences (PhD)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Philosophy in Pharmaceutical Sciences (PhD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
You're ready to work at the forefront of pharmaceutical sciences advancement. Take your education to the next level with a PhD at UBC Pharm Sci. It's where you'll work shoulder to shoulder with other leading experts in the field of pharmaceutical sciences, contributing knowledge, developing solutions, and shaping the future of health care. Come to work every day at one of the world's most inspiring campuses, where you will find exceptional mentors and supervisors, and state-of-the-art facilities.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
At UBC Pharm Sci, our research has shaped our outstanding international reputation. This is the place to collaborate with some of the world's foremost pharmaceutical experts, generating relevant, evidence-based and industry-focused research that makes a positive impact on broader society.
As a PhD student, you will embark upon a journey of academic discovery by working alongside renowned researchers who are at the top of their fields. Right from the onset of the program, you will be welcomed by a vibrant collegial community, receive individualized guidance to shape your customized study plan, and receive mentorship from senior researchers. During the program, you will enrich your knowledge and build your skills set to prepare for careers in academia or industry, while exploring research frontiers in world-class facilities. Our graduates are often highly sought after by the pharmaceutical industry for their expertise in drug discovery and development.
Our PhD program attracts some of the brightest and most curious scientific minds, so you can expect to work alongside some of the best scholars to inspire you. Our student body is diverse both in terms of educational backgrounds and global talent. More than half of our graduate students join us from countries outside of Canada, bringing various perspectives to share. We offer orientation events to help new students integrate into life here in Vancouver, at UBC and within the Faculty. And our Pharmaceutical Sciences Graduate Student Society (PharGS) will help support you through your educational journey and make you feel right at home.
UBC is a hub for scientists from different aspects of life science research, is highly rated for cutting edge scientific achievements and provides such a rich environment for trainees in their professional life.
Sepideh Soukhtehzari
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Dissertation
Academic Unit
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Specialization
Pharmaceutical Sciences
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
To be considered for admission to the Pharm Sci PhD program, a
complete
application must be submitted by January 15th. Incomplete applications will
not
be considered.
For International students: This includes the submission of a copy of the
OFFICIAL
IELTS or TOEFL transcript (directly from the Testing Agency).
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
22
Speaking
22
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.5
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 January 2024
Transcript Deadline:
29 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
29 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
29 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
29 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
29 January 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Pharmaceutical Sciences (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Highlights
If you're passionate about health sciences research that makes a difference in patients' lives, then UBC Pharmaceutical Sciences is your place. Innovative, collaborative, impactful and widely recognized, our groundbreaking research is relevant to today's problems.
Some examples of our research include work in the following areas:
Lipid- and polymer-based drug delivery systems using nanotechnology to enhance cancer therapy
Developing small molecule inhibitors for disease-relevant targets, with a specific focus on anti-cancer drug discovery
Gene-delivery treatment of genetic diseases
Predictive analytics in respiratory diseases
Causes, risk factors, and biomarkers of neurological disease progression
Research Focus
A PhD in pharmaceutical sciences is the entry point to countless research opportunities in drug discovery and development. Whether it’s genomics and individualized therapy, nanomedicine, chemical biology, pharmacology, or epidemiology, we offer options for you to explore and collaborate. Our
research themes
include:
Molecular & Systems Pharmacology
is comprised of areas such as drug metabolism, pharmacokinetic modeling, cancer biology/pharmacology, diabetes, cardiovascular pharmacology, neuroscience/neuropharmacology, receptor pharmacology, and pharmacogenomics. This highly interdisciplinary theme embodies research directed at the interactions of drugs with therapeutic targets, and covers fundamental questions of the molecular and cellular basis of individual variations in response to drugs, mechanisms of drug action and the pathogenesis of diseases. These studies are used to inform and optimize the development and delivery of drug intervention regimes for clinical practice.
Nanomedicine & Chemical Biology
applies our expertise in the chemical biology of the fabrication and handling of nanoscopic materials to drug discovery and delivery. Sensing and screening technologies are also an important focus.
Epidemiology and Health Outcomes
covers our activities in epidemiological analysis, health outcomes and health economics research seeking solutions for the predictive enhancement of intervention strategies for practical and preventive healthcare. The impact of this work is used to shape policy to optimize the allocation of health care resources as well as defining the efficacy of healthcare interventions and strategy.
Research Facilities
Opened in 2012, the award-winning Pharmaceutical Sciences building is a quarter-million-square-foot, state-of-the-art learning and research facility in the heart of the UBC campus. Functional, striking and always thrumming with activity, the building is home to cutting-edge equipment, laboratories and research spaces that we make available for use by the scientific public. Our building houses modern, modular labs designed specifically for the type of research intended for the space. Among an array of state-of-the-art scientific equipment, the Faculty houses a modern mass spectrometer facility for pharmacokinetic and drug metabolism studies, and a Sequenom Mass-ARRAY system for genetic studies.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
Thesis-based PhD students in the Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences are eligible to receive a stipend, provided they are in good standing and maintain their eligibility as a UBC graduate student. The stipend package normally includes a graduate teaching assistantship, a graduate research assistantship, and/or a scholarship.
The minimum stipend starting in the 2023-2024 academic year will be:
Domestic PhD student: $30,555 to $31,215 per annum, which includes a
President’s Academic Excellence Initiative PhD Award
(Years 1-3: $1,215 per year; Year 4 and later: $555 per year)
International PhD student: $34,625 per annum, which includes an
International Tuition Award
($3,200) and a
President’s Academic Excellence Initiative PhD Award
($1,425 to each student whose tuition is not paid by an external sponsor).
Please be aware that due to the higher cost of living in Vancouver, students should plan to draw on their personal funds in addition to the stipend.
Average Funding
Based on the criteria outlined below,
27
students within this program were included in this study because they received funding through UBC in the form of teaching, research, academic assistantships or internal or external awards averaging
$39,107
.
13 students received Teaching Assistantships. Average TA funding based on 13 students was $11,734.
23 students received Research Assistantships. Average RA funding based on 23 students was $15,578.
1 student received Academic Assistantships valued at $2,003.
27 students received internal awards. Average internal award funding based on 27 students was $11,552.
9 students received external awards. Average external award funding based on 9 students was $25,685.
Study Period: Sep 2022 to Aug 2023 - average funding for full-time PhD students enrolled in three terms per academic year in this program across years 1-4, the period covered by
UBC's Minimum Funding Guarantee
. Averages might mask variability in sources and amounts of funding received by individual students. Beyond year 4, funding packages become even more individualized.
Review methodology
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Outcomes
48 students graduated between 2005 and 2013. Of these, career information was obtained for 42 alumni (based on research conducted between Feb-May 2016):
RI (Research-Intensive) Faculty: typically tenure-track faculty positions (equivalent of the North American Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor positions) in PhD-granting institutions
TI (Teaching-Intensive) Faculty: typically full-time faculty positions in colleges or in institutions not granting PhDs, and teaching faculty at PhD-granting institutions
Term Faculty: faculty in term appointments (e.g. sessional lecturers, visiting assistant professors, etc.)
Sample Employers in Higher Education
University of British Columbia (5)
Roosevelt University (2)
University of Antwerp
University of Aberdeen
Memorial University of Newfoundland
University of Georgia
University of Alabama
University of California - Los Angeles
Dalhousie University
Simon Fraser University
Sample Employers Outside Higher Education
Lower Mainland Pharmacy Services (2)
DynaLIFE
STEMCELL Technologies
Ember Therapeutics
Roche
Walmart Pharmacy
Rexall
Pfizer Canada Inc.
Sanofi Pasteur
Ipsen Biopharmaceutical, Inc.
Sample Job Titles Outside Higher Education
Scientist (3)
Manager (2)
Principal Scientist
Pharmacist
Clinical Chemist
Project Leader
Pharmacy Manager
Director
Medical Scientist
CNS Medical Affairs
PhD Career Outcome Survey
You may view the full report on career outcomes of UBC PhD graduates on
outcomes.grad.ubc.ca
.
Disclaimer
These data represent historical employment information and do not guarantee future employment prospects for graduates of this program. They are for informational purposes only. Data were collected through either alumni surveys or internet research.
Career Options
With a tailored PhD in pharmaceutical sciences, the door is open to numerous research career options in drug discovery and development. Our graduates have gone on to create R&D companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors, and developed and commercialized therapeutic products in the treatment of various diseases. While a number of our PhD graduates opt for careers in academia or government, the majority of our alumni thrive in industry.
Alumni on Success
Swamy Yeleswaram
Job Title
VP
Employer
Incyte Corporation
Gary Lopaschuk
Job Title
Professor
Employer
University of Alberta
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Doctor of Philosophy in Pharmaceutical Sciences (PhD). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
76
49
56
56
47
Offers
10
9
8
4
7
New Registrations
6
7
5
4
6
Total Enrolment
44
40
42
36
35
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
84%
based on 39 students admitted between 2011 - 2014. Based on 15 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 3.29 years and the maximum time is 8.2 years with an average of
5.22 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Upcoming Doctoral Exams
Tuesday, 10 December 2024 - 12:30pm - Room 200
Niki Oveisi
Impact of Cancer on Sexual and Reproductive Health among Adolescent and Young Adults (AYA): Epidemiologic Studies and Patients' Perspectives
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Pharmaceutical Sciences (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Cairns, Brian
(Neurosciences, biological and chemical aspects; Neurosciences, medical and physiological and health aspects; Pharmacology and pharmaceutical sciences (except clinical aspects); electrophysiology; headache; Neuropharmacology; Oro-Facial Pain; pain; pain mechanisms; peripheral analgesics; sex-related differences; temporomandibular disorders)
Chang, Thomas
(Pharmacology and pharmaceutical sciences (except clinical aspects))
Conklin, Annalijn
(Public health nutrition policy; Other basic medicine and life sciences; Social Determinants of Dietary and Metabolic Disorders; social nutritional epidemiology; Gender Epidemiology; women's health; Health Equity; Chronic Diseases in Elderly; Obesity; CVD risk factors; healthy ageing; food and nutrition policy; Indigenous health; Community Health / Public Health; disease management evaluation; healthcare quality improvement; Professional Practices; ethics of research and public health)
Coughtrie, Michael
(Drug metabolizing enzymes)
Cragg, Jacquelyn
(Epidemiology (except nutritional and veterinary epidemiology); data science; open science; Causal inference; Drug Effectiveness; Drug Safety; Epidemiology; neuro-epidemiology; Neurological diseases; Spinal cord injury; Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS); multiple sclerosis; Parkinson’s disease)
De Vera, Mary
(examining how eHealth technologies can support new and existing models of care to improve care delivery and patient outcomes; exploring patients' perspectives and experiences with medication taking and adherence; and evaluating the use and impacts of medications among pregnant women, particularly with inflammatory conditions.)
Finbloom, Joel
(Drug discovery, design and delivery; Biologically active molecules; Nanochemistry; Antimicrobial resistance; Nanomedicine; nanomedicine; Chemical Biology; drug delivery; Pharmaceutical Sciences; Infectious disease; Bacterial Biofilms; Microbiome; Probiotics; Antibiotic resistance)
Frankel, Adam
(Other basic medicine and life sciences; Enzymes (including kinetics and mechanisms, and biocatalyst); Protein Biochemistry; arginine methylation; Histones; Nucleosomes; post-translational modifications; Biological and Biochemical Mechanisms; Organic Molecules and Biomolecules; Bioactive Molecules; Proteins; Chemical Biology; drug discovery; Target Engagement; yeast; Amino acids)
Giaever, Guri
(Model organisms, human therapeutics, high-throughput cell biology, drug synergy, technologies for understanding relationship between chromatic structure and transcriptional regulation)
Harrison, Mark
(measurement and valuation of health, health technology and policy assessment, and preferences for healthcare interventions; evaluation/re-evaluation of the type of health care that is provided, the point in the treatment pathway, and the way in which it is delivered)
Jarvis-Selinger, Sandra
(Education, human learning, development, and instruction, education innovation, konwledge translation, teaching excellence, curriculum design, technology)
Johnson, Kate
(Health Outcomes)
Krentz, Nicole
(Human development and organogenesis; Pharmacology and pharmaceutical sciences, n.e.c.; Human physiology, n.e.c.; Diabetes; Developmental biology; Genetics)
Kumar, Ujendra
(Somatostatin hormone, molecular pharmacology, Somatostatin, , Hormones, somatostatin, locomotor and cognitive function, neurodegenerative diseases, drugs)
Lalji, Fawziah
(Epidemiology (except nutritional and veterinary epidemiology); Pharmacoepidemiology; Infectious diseases; Immunization; Antibiotics and Resistance; Vaccine preventable diseases)
Li, Shyh-Dar
(Drug discovery, design and delivery; Nano-technology; biopharmaceutics; drug delivery; nanomedicine; pharmaceutics; Gene delivery and therapy)
Loewen, Peter
(Cardiology and circulatory sciences (including cardiovascular disease); Clinical pharmacy and pharmacy practice; Knowledge translation and implementation science in health; atrial fibrillation; Pharmacoepidemiology; Thrombosis and Embolism; adherence to medication; Cardiovascular diseases; Arrhythmia; Heart Failure; stroke; Health Care Technologies; Professional Practices; Hematology; decision making; clinical prediction rules; healthcare communication technologies; hospital pharmacy practice; knowledge translation of evidence to patient care; patient complexiometry; patient decision aids; patient education; pharmacy practice; prediction of stroke and bleeding in atrial fibrillation patients; quality of care, quality drug therapy; Shared decision-making; stroke prevention therapy; use of mobile technology for clinical decision-making)
Lynd, Larry
(health economics, orphan drugs, pharmaceutical policy, respiratory medicine, epidemiology, pharmacoepidemiology, rare diseases )
Maharaj, Anil
(Pharmacology and pharmaceutical sciences, n.e.c.; Pharmacometrics; Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics; Obstetric and Pediatric Pharmacology)
McCormack, James
(Knowledge translation and evidence-based practice)
Nislow, Corey
(genomics and develops biotechnology tools to address both fundamental and applied biological questions; Parallel genome-wide chemical genomic screens; High throughput cell-based screens; Next Generation Sequencing)
Page, Brent
(Drug discovery, design and delivery; Cell Signaling and Cancer; Cancer; Cell signaling; Chemical Biology; Drug development; Drug Discovery, Design and Delivery; Medicinal Chemistry; Target Engagement)
Rodrigues, Brian
(Pharmacology and pharmaceutical sciences (except clinical aspects); Diabetes; Cardiomyopathy; Heart Failure; Energy Metabolism; Cardiovascular metabolism; Endothelial cell - cardiomyocyte crosstalk; Vascular Endothelial Growth factors)
Ross, Colin
(Genetic medicine; Genomics; Neurosciences, biological and chemical aspects; Neurosciences, medical and physiological and health aspects; Pharmacology and pharmaceutical sciences (except clinical aspects); Biomedical Technologies; Drug Metabolism; Gene Therapy; Gene-based therapeutics; Pharmacogenomics; Precision Medicine; Transgenic Model)
Sadatsafavi, Mohsen
(Respiratory diseases; Epidemiology (except nutritional and veterinary epidemiology); Epidemiology; Biostatistics; Respiratory Research)
Pages
1
2
next ›
last »
Doctoral Citations
A
doctoral citation
summarizes the nature of the independent research, provides a high-level overview of the study, states the significance of the work and says who will benefit from the findings in clear, non-specialized language, so that members of a lay audience will understand it.
Citation contains
Items
10
25
50
100
Year
Citation
2024
Dr. Howren examined the relationship between mental disorders and arthritis and whether people with arthritis receive adequate care for depression or anxiety. Her research demonstrates arthritis has an underlying relationship with depression and anxiety, that mental disorders are substantially undertreated, and that mental health care needs are largely unmet.
2024
Dr. Bergamo investigated the use of albumin aggregates as a formulation for the delivery of a fibrinolytic enhancer to the lungs. With this research the potential of using a diagnostic tool such as albumin microparticles for a therapeutic purpose was explored.
2024
Dr. Wu's research revolutionizes protein drug delivery, addressing medicine adherence and effectiveness. He developed a needle-free platform using cell-penetrating peptides (CPPs), enhancing insulin delivery and blood glucose control. His Nano formulations promise breakthroughs in treating chronic conditions by delivery of monoclonal antibody.
2023
Dr. Hohenwarter developed a painkiller derived from an endogenous opioid peptide. He demonstrated the effectiveness of this novel compound in reducing pain and depression, without inducing dangerous opioid-related side effects. This new painkiller may be a safe alternative to opioids for persistent pain treatment and help fight the opioid crisis.
2023
Dr. Saatchi examined outpatient antibiotic use in British Columbia and Ontario, Canada. Appropriate antibiotic use is integral to mitigate the impacts of antibacterial resistance. This epidemiological research elucidates new targets for antimicrobial stewardship efforts and offers the first interpretations of inter-provincial prescribing quality.
2023
Dr. Saxena developed a novel oral delivery system called sorbops that can improve the oral delivery of compounds and biomolecules which would normally get degraded in the gastrointestinal tract. She subsequently tested the efficiency of sorbops in different cell lines and mice using SPECT/CT imaging thereby, showing higher amounts of drug uptake in the target sites.
2023
Dr. Bohrmann used click chemistry to generate tumor specific nanoprobes and to evaluate novel radiotracers for pretargeted imaging. His research showcases opportunities and challenges for the further development of aptamer-based imaging probes and may contribute to the further development of technetium-99m labeled radiotracers.
2023
Dr. Yu developed and validated two novel reporter gene mouse models that can quickly measure the effectiveness of genome editing in animals. They are valuable tools to evaluate and optimize new ways to deliver gene editors into various tissues. The long-term goal of this research is to improve the safety and efficacy of genome-targeted therapeutics.
2023
Dr. Shang examined the metabolic effects of a growth factor, VEGFB, in the heart under normal conditions and following diabetes. Her research brings attention to fat utilization as an additional means for development of diabetic heart disease. Her findings are expected to advance the clinical management of this complication seen with diabetes.
2023
Dr. Khanna examined how nanoscale flow cytometry could improve the analysis and isolation of extracellular vesicles. He identified how STEAP-1 positive extracellular vesicles can be diagnostic of prostate cancer more accurately than currently available blood tests, and subsequently developed a novel method to isolate this subpopulation.
Pages
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
Identification of polysialylated proteins in breast cancer and correlation with patient prognosis
Localized delivery of resiquimod for enhanced immunotherapy of peritoneal metastasis
Establishing multi-organ-on-a-chip cultures to emulate atopic diseases
Developing models to study breast cancer progression and investigating the role of invadopodia in tumor cell metastasis
Facilitating gene delivery and genome editing in obstructive lung disease using lipid nanoparticles
Integrating sex and gender-based analysis in pharmacoepidemiologic studies of medication adherence
Venturing into the undruggable – a quest from STAT3 to TrkA inhibition in anticancer drug discovery
Macroaggregated albumin particles as intravenous drug formulation for lung delivery
Transmucosal delivery of protein and peptide drugs by using cell penetrating peptides
Development and evaluation of radiolabeled macromolecular conjugates for targeted delivery of anti-arthritic drugs
Exploring health care encounters and treatments for mental disorders in individuals with inflammatory arthritis : epidemiologic and health services research studies
Pharmacokinetics of cationic host-defense peptides and innate defense regulators in native and formulated states
Projecting the outcomes of early interventions for asthma : data-driven and modeling studies
Examining the quantity and quality of antibiotic use : a population-based analysis of British Columbia and Ontario
Investigation of excipients to improve oral delivery of peptides
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD)
Master of Science in Pharmaceutical Sciences (MSc)
Further Information
Specialization
Pharmaceutical Sciences
Pharmaceutical Sciences covers research areas of nanomedicine, drug delivery; drug metabolism, pharmacokinetics and toxicology; pharmacogenomics and pharmacogenetics; diabetes, cardiovascular and molecular pharmacology; neuropharmacology; cancer pharmacology; pharmaceutical health outcomes and pharmacotherapeutics; and pharmaceutical education.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/pharmaceutical-sciences
Program Website
https://pharmsci.ubc.ca/programs/phd-degree
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Academic Unit
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Program Identifier
VGDPHD-TU
Classification
Pharmacology and pharmaceutical sciences (except clinical aspects)
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 January 2024
International Applicant Deadline
29 January 2025
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubcpharmacy/
https://www.instagram.com/ubcpharmsci/
https://www.linkedin.com/company/ubc-faculty-of-pharmaceutical-sciences/
https://twitter.com/ubcpharmacy/
https://www.youtube.com/user/UBCPharmSci/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Amin Adibi
Before starting my program, I had the privilege of working, living, and studying as an uninvited guest on the ancestral unceded territory of the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam) Nation at UBC for a few years. And what can I say, it is the most beautiful place! UBC is also a global leader in respiratory...
Megan Thomas
UBC is one of Canada’s leading research universities, consistently ranking in the top 40 universities in the world. In addition to it's stellar reputation, it also has one of the most beautiful campuses in the country. The ocean and mountain views are unmatched!
Petar Iliev
I have an interest in target-based drug-discovery and in my PhD I wanted to explore the use of the latest target-engagement techniques for developing new inhibitors. I joined UBC and the Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences in particular, because I wanted to work with Dr. Brent Page, who has...
1 of 2
next ›
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver