Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-mechanical-engineering

Doctor of Philosophy in Mechanical Engineering (PhD)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Philosophy in Mechanical Engineering (PhD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The thesis-based Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Mechanical Engineering is an advanced research-based degree. The program offers students an opportunity to work at the highest level of research, under the supervision of a faculty member. Students complete their candidacy examination within 18 months and complete their doctoral dissertation research within three to four years. It is normal department practice to initially register students in the M.A.Sc. program, and to transfer them to the Ph.D. program upon completion of the M.A.Sc. (or earlier if recommended by the supervising faculty member).
Students taking their Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering can select one of the below research areas:
Applied Solid Mechanics
Biomechanics and Medical Devices
Computational Engineering
Energy & Environment
Fluid Mechanics
Manufacturing Automation & Robotics
Mechatronics & Instrumentation
Naval Architecture & Marine Engineering
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
With eight Research Chairs and almost every research faculty member holding a least one NSERC grant, we have one of the most active research programs in Canada and consistently produce industry and academic leaders.
UBC is ranked in the World’s Top 40 Universities by the Shanghai Jiao Tong University Institute of Higher Education and our Mechanical Engineering professors are recognized nationally and inter­nationally as leaders in their fields.
We offer affordable, competitive tuition fees and extend a number of scholarships, awards, top-ups to external awards, entrance fellowships, Research Assistantships (RA's) and Teaching Assistantships (TA's) to our students.
I chose to attend UBC for a PhD because of the proposed research project, my supervisors, and the availability of a broader community studying air quality and the social aspects of environmental issues. Both of my supervisors are appointed in the Institute for Resources, Environment and Sustainability so even though I am registered in Mechanical Engineering, I have access to a highly interdisciplinary department to inform my research.
Rivkah Gardner-Frolick
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Applied Science
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Dissertation
Academic Unit
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Specialization
Mechanical Engineering
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 93
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is optional.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 February 2025
Transcript Deadline:
01 March 2025
Referee Deadline:
01 March 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 February 2025
Transcript Deadline:
01 March 2025
Referee Deadline:
01 March 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Mechanical Engineering (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
From September 2024 all full-time students in UBC-Vancouver PhD programs will be provided with a funding package of at least $24,000 for each of the first four years of their PhD. The funding package may consist of any combination of internal or external awards, teaching-related work, research assistantships, and graduate academic assistantships. Please note that many graduate programs provide funding packages that are substantially greater than $24,000 per year. Please check with your prospective graduate program for specific details of the funding provided to its PhD students.
Average Funding
Based on the criteria outlined below,
58
students within this program were included in this study because they received funding through UBC in the form of teaching, research, academic assistantships or internal or external awards averaging
$36,788
.
36 students received Teaching Assistantships. Average TA funding based on 36 students was $7,632.
53 students received Research Assistantships. Average RA funding based on 53 students was $21,011.
10 students received Academic Assistantships. Average AA funding based on 10 students was $960.
58 students received internal awards. Average internal award funding based on 58 students was $11,183.
3 students received external awards. Average external award funding based on 3 students was $28,889.
Study Period: Sep 2022 to Aug 2023 - average funding for full-time PhD students enrolled in three terms per academic year in this program across years 1-4, the period covered by
UBC's Minimum Funding Guarantee
. Averages might mask variability in sources and amounts of funding received by individual students. Beyond year 4, funding packages become even more individualized.
Review methodology
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Outcomes
87 students graduated between 2005 and 2013. Of these, career information was obtained for 78 alumni (based on research conducted between Feb-May 2016):
RI (Research-Intensive) Faculty: typically tenure-track faculty positions (equivalent of the North American Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor positions) in PhD-granting institutions
TI (Teaching-Intensive) Faculty: typically full-time faculty positions in colleges or in institutions not granting PhDs, and teaching faculty at PhD-granting institutions
Term Faculty: faculty in term appointments (e.g. sessional lecturers, visiting assistant professors, etc.)
Sample Employers in Higher Education
University of British Columbia (4)
King Saud University (2)
University of Saskatchewan (2)
University of Adelaide
UNIKA Atma Jaya
University of Ontario Institute of Technology
University of Tehran
Abu Dhabi University
University of Michigan - Ann Arbor
Ohio University
Sample Employers Outside Higher Education
Pratt & Whitney Canada (3)
Coanda Research and Development Corporation (3)
Westport Innovations (3)
FPInnovations (2)
Candu Energy Inc. (2)
BMT WBM
PARC Inc.
Paperra
Vanmok Innovative Engineering Solutions
WK Investment Network
Sample Job Titles Outside Higher Education
Senior Mechanical Engineer (4)
Project Engineer (2)
Scientist (2)
Manager (2)
Senior Piping Engineer (2)
Research Engineer (2)
Principal Scientist
Research Scientist
Business Development Manager
Director
PhD Career Outcome Survey
You may view the full report on career outcomes of UBC PhD graduates on
outcomes.grad.ubc.ca
.
Disclaimer
These data represent historical employment information and do not guarantee future employment prospects for graduates of this program. They are for informational purposes only. Data were collected through either alumni surveys or internet research.
Career Options
The graduates of the Ph.D. program find employment at academic institutions and in high-level research and development positions in industry and other institutions. Recent Ph.D. alumni have gone on to work as tenure-track professors in major Canadian and US universities. Others have been employed as research scientists, project managers and team leaders in high-tech startups or S&P 500 companies.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Doctor of Philosophy in Mechanical Engineering (PhD). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
104
74
112
95
119
Offers
25
30
22
18
28
New Registrations
13
20
13
13
17
Total Enrolment
98
98
83
84
80
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
95%
based on 60 students admitted between 2011 - 2014. Based on 35 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 3.42 years and the maximum time is 6.83 years with an average of
5.39 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Upcoming Doctoral Exams
Wednesday, 30 October 2024 - 12:30pm - Room 200
Shubham Agarwal
The Mechanics of Low-Areal-Density Fiber Networks
Friday, 1 November 2024 - 2:30pm
Mohammadreza Rostam
Hybrid Gaussian Process Approach to Robust Economic Model Predictive Control with an Application to Solar Thermal Systems
Wednesday, 27 November 2024 - 10:00am - 2010, Civil and Mechanical Engineering Building, 6250 Applied Science Lane
Mouad Boudina
Capillarity in Diverging Elastic Channels
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Mechanical Engineering (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Altintas, Yusuf
(Virtual Machining, Computer Control of Manufacturing Systems, CAD/CAM, CNC Design, High Speed Feed Drive Control, Real Time Interpolation and Trajectory Generation for Machine Tools, Adaptive Control, Sensor Fused Intelligent Machining, Metal Cutting Mechanics, Chatter Vibrations in Machining, Piezo -Actuator Based Precision Machining, High Speed Milling, Optimal Machining of Aerospace Parts, Dies and Molds, Automation, Precision Engineering, Electro Mechanical Systems, Modeling and Analysis of Machining Processes, Mechanics, dynamics and control of micro-machining operations)
Bacca, Mattia
(Mechanical engineering; Medical and biomedical engineering; Solid Mechanics; Biophysics; Soft materials; Fracture Mechanics and Adhesion)
Bushe, William Kendal
(Numerical modelling and mechanical characterisation; Automotive combustion and fuel engineering (including alternative and renewable fuels); Hypersonic propulsion and hypersonic aerodynamics; Aerospace engineering, n.e.c.; Numerical Simulation of Turbulent Combustion; Reacting Flows; Energy Conversion Systems; clean energy)
Chiao, Mu
(MEMS, Micro Sensors, Micro Actuators, BioMEMS, Nanotechnology, Bioengineering, Electronic Packaging, Nanoscience, Energy sources for micro-electro-mechanical systems)
Clare, Adam
(Manufacturing technologies and approaches for a sustainable future; Additive manufacturing (materials, processes, design and application); Electrical discharge machining, electrolyte jet machining, electron beam and laser processes; Stochastics in engineering design and manufacture; Machine design and build; Manufacturing for high value and high integrity applications (aerospace, biomedical, tool & nuclear))
de Silva, Clarence Wilfred
(Engineering and technology; Multi-robot Systems and Applications, Automation, Machine Learning, Mechatronics, Health Monitoring; Robotics, Sensor Fusion for Machine Health Monitoring, Instrumentation, Computer vision applications)
Elfring, Gwynn
(Theoretical Fluid Mechanics, Complex Fluids, Cell Biomechanics, Capillary Phenomena, Applied Mathematics )
Feng, Steve
(Mechanical engineering; Modelization and Simulation; Software (Tools); Machining and Assembling; Milling; Prototyping; 3D Laser Scanning; 3D Printing; Computer-Aided Design and Manufacturing (CAD/CAM); Geometric Modeling; Machining Simulation; Multi-Axis CNC Machining)
Frigaard, Ian
(Fluid mechanics (visco-plastic fluids))
Giang, Amanda
(Atmospheric sciences; Mechanical engineering; Natural environment sciences; Atmospheric Pollutants; Chemical Pollutants; Climate Changes and Impacts; Public Policies; Social and Cultural Factors of Environmental Protection)
Grecov, Dana
(Numerical modelling and mechanical characterisation; Tribology)
Green, Sheldon
(Fluid Mechanics; Biological and Biochemical Mechanisms; building ventilation; railroads; papermaking)
Hodgson, Antony
(Image guided surgery systems; computer assisted orthopaedic surgery; Medical Imaging; surgical navigation; orthopaedics; biomechanics; surgical robots; Image Processing; Machine Learning)
Jaiman, Rajeev
(Mechanical engineering; Bluff-body flows and flow-induced vibration; Computational methods and numerical analysis; Data-driven computing; Flow control and drag reduction; Fluid-structure interaction; Model order reduction; Multiphase Flows)
Jelovica, Jasmin
(Civil engineering; Mechanical engineering; Finite element analysis; Machine Learning; Metals and Alloys; Production and Process Optimization; Sandwich structures; Solid Mechanics; Stress Analysis; Structural optimization; Ultimate, fatigue and impact strength; Welding and joining of metals)
Jin, Xiaoliang
(Mechanical engineering; Manufacturing Processes; Solid Mechanics; Machining Mechanics and Dynamics; Manufacturing Processes for Advanced Materials; Material Characterization; Surface Integrity; Vibration Assisted Machining)
Kirchen, Patrick
(Thermochemical Energy Conversion, Combustion, Internal Combustion Engines, Ion Transport Membranes, Emissions, Fuel Injection )
Liao-McPherson, Dominic
(Mechanical engineering; Predictive and Constrained Control; Multi-agent Systems; algorithmic game theory; Real-time, Embedded, and Distributed Optimization; Energy Systems, Manufacturing, and Robotics)
Ma, Hongshen
(Microfluidics; Instrumentation; Cell Sorting; Cell Biomechanics; Circulating Tumor Cells; Malaria and Red Blood Cell Deformability; Single Cell Technologies; Cell Migration and Chemotaxis)
Mérida, Walter
(Clean energy, Electrochemical energy conversion, Thermodynamics, Low carbon fuels, Fuel cells and hydrogen)
Nagamune, Ryozo
(Systems control and automation; Manufacturing engineering; control engineering; data-driven modeling and control; robust and linear parameter-varying control; modeling and control of floating offshore wind turbines and wind farms; modeling and control of metal additive manufacturing processes; modeling and control of solar themal systems; modeling and control of automotive engines; optimization)
Ollivier-Gooch, Carl
(Aerodynamics (except hypersonic aerodynamics); Computational fluid mechanics; Algorithm Development for Computational Fluid Dynamics; Applied Aerodynamics; Numerical analysis; Unstructured Mesh Generation; Error and Stability Analysis for Unstructured Mesh Methods; Computer Sciences and Mathematical Tools; Fluid mechanics)
Olson, James
(Application of Physics and Fluid Mechanics to Problems Associated with the Pulp and Paper Industry, Mechanical Energy Reduction in Mechanical Pulping)
Oxland, Thomas
(Spinal Cord Injury, Aging Spine, Orthopaedic Implants)
Phani, Srikantha
(Dynamics of multiscale materials, structures and devices, Applied Mechanics, Micromechanics)
Pages
1
2
next ›
last »
Open Research Positions
This list of possible research projects is non-exhaustive. It only shows positions that are specifically advertised in the G+PS website.
Funded PhD Position in Autonomous Medical Drones
Research project in scientific computing
PhD Opportunity - Solar Driven Carbon Dioxide Capture and Conversion
Doctoral Citations
A
doctoral citation
summarizes the nature of the independent research, provides a high-level overview of the study, states the significance of the work and says who will benefit from the findings in clear, non-specialized language, so that members of a lay audience will understand it.
Citation contains
Items
10
25
50
100
Year
Citation
2024
Dr. Pourzahedi's research delved into the dynamics of gas propagation inside complex fluids, offering strategies to manipulate gas presence inside such media. Relevant to mitigating greenhouse gas emissions from tailings ponds, understanding gas behavior in these fluids holds significant importance for sustainability and environmental preservation.
2024
Dr. Rad's research centered on enhancing devices that provide a tactile sense of simulated environments. Her work elevated the quality of interactions and perception in dynamic environments. Her findings hold promise for critical fields like medical training and telesurgery, where interaction precision is vital for patient safety.
2024
Dr. Gupta investigated the rheology and flow dynamics of wormlike micellar gels. His experiments revealed previously unknown complex features in the flow of such fluids and will aid the synthesis, design and manipulation of similar soft matter.
2024
Dr. Tai developed a hybrid physics and data-driven method for spindle health monitoring. He combined digital spindle twins with a machine-learning method to make machine tools more intelligent in health diagnosis. These comparative studies assist machine tool manufacturers or spindle repair companies in increasing their maintenance efficiency.
2024
Dr. Shrestha studied the insertion of needles into soft solids, the injection of fluid through microneedles and the detection of diseases like sickle cell disease and beta-thalassemia. The findings can help optimize drug or vaccine delivery through microneedles, and can provide a low-cost automated tool to detect diseases in low-resource settings.
2024
Dr. Zandsalimy developed novel methods to improve the numerical stability and convergence rate of computational simulations. These cutting-edge tools are highly efficient and readily applicable to current industrial simulation software. His automated methods substantially reduce the computational resources required for diverse applications.
2024
Dr. Babaee studied the effects of cryogenic fluid spills on ship structure integrity, focusing on rapid cooling impacts on plates. Using theoretical models, the research showed even small spills cause significant stress, aiding in designing more resilient maritime vessels.
2024
Dr. Karimi developed a physics-based digital model of machining thin wall blades enabling the development of optimization algorithms that autonomously adjust cutting parameters. This approach ensures both stability and precision in the machining process. These advancements significantly enhance the efficiency of blade machining.
2024
Dr. Izadi delved into the issue of leakage within the oil and gas industry, which is becoming an increasingly pressing environmental concern. He led the way in developing risk-based strategies to tackle this issue and pointed towards more sophisticated solutions to effectively mitigate its environmental impact.
2024
Dr. Zhang studied the displacement flows in narrow eccentric annuli. Her research spans a wide range of methods including 2D model development, 3D simulations and lab-scale experiments. A systematic classification metric has been built and the main emphasis lies in understanding the dispersion behavior of such flows.
Pages
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
Adaptive and predictive time domain passivity control for haptic interfaces
Image-based methods to characterize morphological, biomechanical and poroelastic parameters of blood cells and skin tissue
Predicting muscle fatigue during dynamic contractions using wavelet analysis of surface electromyography signals
Active contractility of polymeric gels and a model for clot retraction-driven wound closure
Investigating disparities in air pollution exposure in Canada : from the local to the national scale
Cutting mechanics of soft solids
Investigating cerebellar involvement in the adaptability of standing balance control using a robotic platform and electroencephalography
Computational study of nonlinear thermoelastic behavior in axisymmetric plates under rapid cooling
Model-based spindle health monitoring
Virtual blade machining
Stability analysis and improvement in computational fluid dynamics
Bubbles in a viscoplastic liquid
Constant pressure invasion of viscoplastic suspensions in thin conduits
Displacement and dispersion effects in vertical eccentric annulus flows
A unified Eulerian variational framework for multiphase fluid-structure interaction
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Applied Science in Mechanical Engineering (MASc)
Master of Engineering in Mechanical Engineering (MEng)
Same Academic Unit
Master of Engineering in Mechatronics Design (MEng)
Master of Engineering in Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering (MEng)
Master of Engineering Leadership in Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering (MEL)
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), Engineering
Further Information
Specialization
Mechanical Engineering
Fields of research in Mechanical Engineering include: acoustics; aerodynamics and fluid mechanics; automatic controls; robotics and industrial automation; energy conversion, combustion, thermodynamics and heat transfer; vibrations and space dynamics; solid mechanics; bioengineering and biomechanics; design and manufacturing processes; industrial engineering, fuel cells, micro-electromechanical systems, mechatronics, and CAD; and naval architecture.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/mechanical-engineering
Program Website
https://mech.ubc.ca/graduate/prospective/programs/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Applied Science
Academic Unit
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Program Identifier
VGDPHD-P8
Classification
Mechanical engineering
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 February 2025
International Applicant Deadline
15 February 2025
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubcmech/
https://www.instagram.com/ubcmech/
https://twitter.com/ubcmech/
https://www.youtube.com/user/UBCMech
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Arash Mousemi
The field of my interest is not studied in many labs around the world, and UBC is one of the few universities that offered conducting research on what I really like. Also, my supervisor is kind and supportive.
Musanna Galib
UBC has a strong applied science community, and I am excited to become a part of that. I was offered a 4-year fellowship and got the opportunity in the field I am interested in, which helped me decide to study at UBC.
Pan Deng
UBC is one of the world-leading institutions with world-class facilities and varied opportunities for education and research. It also conducts research at high levels, especially in the field of biomedical engineering. While pursuing my master’s degree, I was most intrigued by the work done by my...
1 of 2
next ›
The city and the sea
Take a break from studying with opportunities at your fingertips. Whether you want to settle down in a café or take your research outdoors, we have a place for you.