Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-reproductive-developmental-sciences

Doctor of Philosophy in Reproductive and Developmental Sciences (PhD)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Philosophy in Reproductive and Developmental Sciences (PhD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Applicant Information
We are excited to have received Ministry approval for the new Women+ and Children’s Health Sciences (WACH) program which will replace our current Reproductive and Developmental Sciences (RDS) graduate program starting with the September 2022 intake. If you have been considering applying to the RDS program, please review the new WACH graduate program which will be able to accommodate similar research endeavors.
Overview
The goal of the Graduate Program in Reproductive and Developmental Sciences is to provide students with a broad knowledge of mammalian reproductive and developmental biology, as well as with in depth expertise in at least one area of research, including:
reproductive and molecular endocrinology
immunology of reproduction
maternal adaptations to pregnancy
women’s mental health
gynecologic cancers
prostate cancer
fertilization and early embryonic development
placental development
perinatal metabolism
fetal/neonatal physiology and pathophysiology
perinatal epidemiology
Other areas of research on human health and disease as it relates to male and female reproduction are also possible, including perinatal and postnatal health topics.
Basic science, clinical or epidemiological research projects are possible.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The RDS program is the only graduate program in Canada that is based in a Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. RDS students thus have the opportunity to interact with both basic science and clinical research faculty, which can lead to the formulation of research projects that address important clinical issues in women (e.g. ovarian cancer, preeclampsia). Moreover, the location of the program in the teaching hospitals in Vancouver facilitates the collection of human samples (e.g. placental or ovarian tissue, sperm and testes tissue) that can be used in thesis research projects.
UBC is not only one of the best Universities in the world, it is the house of an amazing group of researchers that are taking the time to re-think reproductive health. There is a lot I still need to know. From theory to methodologies, references, and strategies. All of that I can have during my research period on my PhD.
Paula Pinzón Hernández
Program Structure
The PhD program can involve coursework in addition to the manadatory seminar course, but this is not always the case. A comprehensive examination and thesis-based research which produces new research findings, as well as defense of the thesis, are required.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Medicine
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Dissertation
Academic Unit
Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology
Specialization
Reproductive and Developmental Sciences
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
22
Speaking
22
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
7.0
Writing
7.0
Speaking
7.0
Listening
7.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
Students admitted to the PhD degree program normally possess a master’s degree in biological science or related area, or its academic equivalent (MD, DVM, DDS), with clear evidence of research ability or potential.
2) Meet Deadlines
Application open dates and deadlines for an upcoming intake have not yet been configured in the admissions system. Please check back later.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Reproductive and Developmental Sciences (PhD)
All applicants need firm commitment from a supervisor prior to applying.
RDS faculty members are listed on the "Prospective Supervisors" page of the program's website. You will be asked to upload a signed Memo of Acceptance (provided by the program) from your confirmed supervisor with the application.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Focus
Reproductive and molecular endocrinology, immunology of reproduction, maternal adaptations to pregnancy, women’s mental health, gynecologic cancers, prostate cancer, fertilization and early embryonic development, placental development, perinatal metabolism, fetal/neonatal physiology and pathophysiology, perinatal epidemiology.
Research Facilities
Research activities take place in the BC Women’s Hospital, the main obstetrics and gynaecology hospital in BC, and in one or both of the on-campus research institutes: the BC Children’s Hospital Research Institute, and the Women’s Health Research Institute. In addition, research may be carried out on the UBC Point Grey campus, at Vancouver General Hospital, St. Paul’s Hospital or the BC Cancer Agency. All sites possess modern, well-equipped laboratories for basic science research. There are also facilities for conducting research on human subjects, and for clinical and epidemiological research. Students whose research involves human reproductive biology may have the opportunity to work with clinical members of the Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology. There are also opportunities to collaborate with the BC Support Unit for students whose projects involve patient engagement.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
Students in the RDS program have been successful in receiving the Vanier Graduate Scholarship, CIHR doctoral awards, and affiliated awards.
The minimum funding requirement for PhD students is $24,000 per annum, paid by a Graduate Research Assistantship. Students with external awards totalling less than $24,000 must be topped up to at least the minimum funding from their supervisor's grant.
Average Funding
Based on the criteria outlined below,
2
students within this program were included in this study because they received funding through UBC in the form of teaching, research, academic assistantships or internal or external awards averaging
$25,411
.
1 student received Teaching Assistantships valued at $17,081.
2 students received Research Assistantships. Average RA funding based on 2 students was $15,305.
2 students received internal awards. Average internal award funding based on 2 students was $1,565.
Study Period: Sep 2022 to Aug 2023 - average funding for full-time PhD students enrolled in three terms per academic year in this program across years 1-4, the period covered by
UBC's Minimum Funding Guarantee
. Averages might mask variability in sources and amounts of funding received by individual students. Beyond year 4, funding packages become even more individualized.
Review methodology
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Outcomes
20 students graduated between 2005 and 2013. Of these, career information was obtained for 13 alumni (based on research conducted between Feb-May 2016):
RI (Research-Intensive) Faculty: typically tenure-track faculty positions (equivalent of the North American Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor positions) in PhD-granting institutions
TI (Teaching-Intensive) Faculty: typically full-time faculty positions in colleges or in institutions not granting PhDs, and teaching faculty at PhD-granting institutions
Term Faculty: faculty in term appointments (e.g. sessional lecturers, visiting assistant professors, etc.)
Sample Employers in Higher Education
University of British Columbia (2)
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology
Chungnam National University
Gachon University
University of Kentucky
University of Texas
Kyung Hee University
University of Chicago
Sample Employers Outside Higher Education
BC Cancer Agency (2)
Izumi Municipal Hospital
National Cancer Centre Singapore
Sample Job Titles Outside Higher Education
Postdoctoral Fellow
Attending Chief Physician
Scientist
Senior Research Fellow
PhD Career Outcome Survey
You may view the full report on career outcomes of UBC PhD graduates on
outcomes.grad.ubc.ca
.
Disclaimer
These data represent historical employment information and do not guarantee future employment prospects for graduates of this program. They are for informational purposes only. Data were collected through either alumni surveys or internet research.
Career Options
The PhD program provides students with the expertise to take up an academic position or a research position in a clinical setting. In addition, for qualified students there is the possibility of completing a MD-PhD degree.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Doctor of Philosophy in Reproductive and Developmental Sciences (PhD). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
0
1
9
5
9
Offers
0
1
5
1
5
New Registrations
0
0
3
1
5
Total Enrolment
5
6
19
15
18
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
78%
based on 18 students admitted between 2011 - 2014. Based on 14 graduating students from the 2011 - 2014 admissions cohort the minimum time to completion is 3.75 years and the maximum time is 5.35 years with an average of
4.37 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Reproductive and Developmental Sciences (PhD)
All applicants need firm commitment from a supervisor prior to applying.
RDS faculty members are listed on the "Prospective Supervisors" page of the program's website. You will be asked to upload a signed Memo of Acceptance (provided by the program) from your confirmed supervisor with the application.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Anglesio, Michael
(Obstetrics and gynecology; Premalignant disease (precursors); Cancer molecular targets; Cancer of the Reproductive System; Host-Tumour Interaction; Endometriosis; Cancer Diagnosis and Detection; animal models of endometriosis and cancer; Cancer prevention; early detection biomarkers; endometriosis associated cancers; gene-expression and transcriptomics; genomics; Immunology; microenvironment; ovarian cancer etiology)
Bayrampour Basmenj, Hamideh
(Psychosocial, sociocultural and behavioral determinants of health; Electronic health (e-Health); Mobile health (mHealth); Midwifery; Health information systems (including surveillance); Perinatal mental health; Perinatal Anxiety; Pregnancy Outcomes; eHealth; mHealth)
Bedaiwy, Mohamed
(Other clinical medicine; Endometriosis; Recurrent Pregnancy Loss; Infertility; Minimally Invasive Surgery)
Beristain, Alexander Guillermo
(Healthy Starts; cellular and molecular processes that direct trophoblast cell biology in early placental development; Examining the A Disintegrin And Metalloproteinase (ADAM) family in trophoblast biology; Examining the effects of obesity-associated inflammation on the maternal-fetal interface; Identifying gene expression differences in subpopulations of trophoblasts in normal and pathological pregnancies )
Brotto, Lori
(Human reproduction and development sciences; Neurosciences, biological and chemical aspects; Neurosciences, medical and physiological and health aspects; Clinical psychology; mindfulness; Sexual Dysfunctions; sexual desire; treatment of sexual concerns; women's sexual health; asexuality; digital health interventions)
Cerri, Ronaldo
(Animal and dairy sciences; Animal behaviour; Animal developmental and reproductive biology; Animal physiology; Agricultural Machinery and Technology; Animal Production; Animal Reproduction; Biotechnology and Activity monitors; Dairy cattle reproduction; Endocrine Regulation; Endometrium-conceptus cross communication; Estrous cycle physiology in cattle; Inflammation and stress; Production medicine in dairy cattle)
Devlin, Angela
(Human nutrition and dietetics; Human reproduction and development sciences; Pathology (except oral pathology); cardiovascular disease; Children; developmental programming; Diabetes; Obesity)
Elango, Rajavel
(Protein Nutrition, Maternal-Fetal Nutrition, Childhood Malnutrition, Amino Acid Metabolism, Human Nutrition )
Flannigan, Ryan
(evaluating genetic and molecular mechanisms contributing to non-obstructive azoospermia (NOA))
Geoffrion, Roxana
(patient education, surgical outcomes after various pelvic reconstructive surgeries and surgical skill development through simulation and standardized training; pelvic floor reconstruction procedures such as vaginal prolapse or urinary incontinence surgery)
Hach, Faraz
(Cancer; Algorithms and computational genomics; Computational Genomics; biomolecular sequence analysis)
Hanley, Gillian
(Clinical medicine; Gynecologic cancer; Ovarian cancer prevention; Gynecologic cancer survivorship; Perinatal mental health; Population-based administrative data)
Huntsman, David
(hereditary cancer, molecular pathology, cancer biomarkers, Pancreas centre)
Hutcheon, Jennifer
(Perinatal epidemiology ; Perinatal research methods; Fetal growth restriction; Severe maternal morbidity; Improving the reference charts used to assess fetal growth and maternal weight gain in pregnancy; Evaluating the impact of obstetrical health care policies on maternal and infant health; Developing clinical prediction models for the identification of adverse maternal and neonatal outcomes)
Joseph, K.S.
(Pregnancy complications, preterm birth, fetal growth, infant mortality, neonatal)
Lavoie, Pascal
(Neonatal Immunity, Infection/Inflammation,  Inheritance/Genetics of Neonatal Morbidities, Neonatal Chronic Lung Disease)
Leung, Peter C
(Reproductive and molecular endocrinology  )
Lisonkova, Sarka
(preeclampsia)
McAlpine, Jessica
(subtypes of ovarian and endometrial cancers, and prevention)
Money, Deborah
(Medical, health and life sciences; Reproductive Infectious Diseases,; Vaccine studies, vaginal microbiome, HIV, COVID in pregnancy)
Norman, Wendy
(Health equity; Health care effectiveness and outcomes; Fertility and maternal health; Knowledge translation and implementation science in health; Population health interventions; Health services and systems, n.e.c.; Family planning; Health services and policy research; Contraception; Abortion; Population health equity research; Applied public health and population health intervention research; Health professional scope of practice research)
Oberlander, Timothy
(Population epidemiological studies that characterize neurodevelopmental pathways that reflect risk, resiliency and developmental plasticity)
Ranger, Manon
(Neurodevelopment; Clinical nursing, secondary (acute care); neurodevelopment; Early-adversity; Biomarkers of early stress exposure; Brain development; pain; Prematurity)
Robinson, Wendy
(Other basic medicine and life sciences; Medical Genetics; Early (prenatal) human development; Placenta; Epigenetics; DNA methylation; Sex differences; Mosaicism)
Talhouk, Aline
(Human reproduction and development sciences; Computer Science and Statistics; Epidemiology; Bioinformatics; Cancer of the Reproductive System; diagnostic models; Digital health; Machine Learning; personalized medicine; prevention; Privacy)
Pages
1
2
next ›
last »
Doctoral Citations
A
doctoral citation
summarizes the nature of the independent research, provides a high-level overview of the study, states the significance of the work and says who will benefit from the findings in clear, non-specialized language, so that members of a lay audience will understand it.
Citation contains
Items
10
25
50
100
Year
Citation
2024
Dr. Alemzadeh Mehrizi investigated roles of 5 proteins in the deadliest subtype of uterine cancer. She discovered that the elevated levels of these proteins are reducing patients' survival, and increasing the invasiveness of the cancer cells. Her findings provide novel insights into new ways of treating this deadly subtype of uterine cancer.
2023
Dr. Ahmed showed the mechanistic pathway by which the growth factor myostatin increases the invasion of human placenta into the mother's womb to support the developing baby. Her study illustrates a role for myostatin in pregnancy. It also helps in understanding the effects of its dysregulation in several pregnancy complications.
2022
Multiple factors play a role in endometriosis pain, ultimately impacting treatment decisions. Dr. Orr found a clinically practical tool to identify central sensitization in endometriosis and found that KRAS mutations were related to endometriosis severity. Her findings will contribute to a new classification system for endometriosis care.
2020
Dr. Alotaibi examined the roles of molecular targets in endometriosis cell invasion and nerve growth. He found that protein IL-1 beta enhances invasive capacity of endometriosis and is associated with nerve growth and worse sexual pain reported by patients. His findings suggest a novel therapeutic target for treatment of endometriosis related pain.
2020
Dr. Ennis determined the dietary requirements for amino acids phenylalanine and tyrosine in human pregnancy, while comparing findings to current management practices of maternal phenylketonuria patients. These studies will improve dietary recommendations during pregnancy that have the potential to positively impact birth outcomes.
2020
Dr. McClymont examined multiple aspects of HPV vaccination in women living with HIV. She found that while the vaccine has good efficacy, the post-vaccination burden of oncogenic HPV suggests that cervical screening remains important. These findings will inform the World Health Organization's global strategy for eliminating cervical cancer.
2019
Polycystic ovary syndrome, known as PCOS, affects up to 18% of women worldwide. Dr. Cutler examined the impact of nutrition on the metabolic, reproductive and mental health of women. Her findings support the need for more comprehensive treatment options for PCOS.
2019
Dr. Zhao studied the effect of bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2) on placental development during pregnancy. He found that BMP2 positively regulates human placental cell invasion and the underlying mechanisms involved, which may inform advances in clinical diagnostic and therapeutic approaches for pregnancy disorders.
2019
Dr. Lee identified splicing mechanisms orchestrating the progression of an aggressive therapy-resistant prostate cancer subtype. Her research pertains to the clinical implications of splicing mechanisms in informing future therapeutic strategies that may be effective in detecting and preventing or mitigating the disease course.
2018
Dr. Li identified gene SRRM4 as a powerful driver and therapeutic target for a special type of drug-resistant prostate cancer. This study provides insights into personalized medicine-based strategies for prostate cancer patients and may guide future development of novel therapeutics for drug-resistant prostate cancer.
Pages
1
2
3
4
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
Role of epidermal growth factor family in copy-number high endometrial cancers
Prenatal antidepressant exposure and associations with fetal–newborn neurobehaviour and early brain connectivity
Interleukin 1-beta, plasminogen activator system, and nerve growth factor in endometriosis associated deep dyspareunia
Central sensitization and somatic activating KRAS mutations in endometriosis-associated pain
Total sulfur amino acid requirements in healthy human pregnancy and implications in protein synthesis from plant-based food sources
Role of myostatin signaling in human trophoblast cell invasion
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Science in Reproductive and Developmental Sciences (MSc)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Women+ and Children's Health Sciences (PhD)
Master of Science in Women+ and Children's Health Sciences (MSc)
Further Information
Specialization
Reproductive and Developmental Sciences
Reproductive and Developmental Sciences provides students with a broad knowledge of mammalian reproductive and developmental biology, as well as with in-depth expertise in at least one area of research, including reproductive and molecular endocrinology, immunology of reproduction, fertilization and early embryonic development, perinatal metabolism, and fetal neonatal physiology.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/reproductive-and-developmental-sciences
Program Website
https://obgyn.ubc.ca/education/rds-graduate-program/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Medicine
Academic Unit
Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology
Program Identifier
VGDPHD-VU
Classification
Fetal development and medicine
Obstetrics and gynecology
Human reproduction and development sciences
Embryology
Fertility and maternal health
Assisted reproductive technologies
Program Website
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://twitter.com/ubcOBGYN/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Enav Zusman
UBC has been my home since 2014. I completed an MSc in Experimental Medicine at the VGH campus and a Doctor of Pharmacy at the Point Grey Campus. My time at UBC has been a very positive experience; I have had the opportunity to meet and work with world-class researchers, become involved with...
Kate Wahl
Early in my training, I realised that researchers can play an important role in ensuring that new knowledge gets into the hands of people who can use it to improve health outcomes. I decided to focus my doctoral research on the development of new methods for generating and sharing evidence with...
The city and the sea
Take a break from studying with opportunities at your fingertips. Whether you want to settle down in a café or take your research outdoors, we have a place for you.