Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/doctor-pharmacy

Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
The PharmD program is not considered a graduate degree at UBC despite carrying Doctor in its name. Thus, the program is not administered by Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies. Admission to the PharmD program resides with the Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences. Interested students should visit the
Entry-to-Practice PharmD program website
or the
Flex PharmD program website
(for working pharmacists) for further information.
Overview
The
Entry-to-Practice Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD)
program offers the highest quality education in pharmaceutical sciences, equipping graduates for a variety of career opportunities in pharmacy practice, research and teaching. Graduates are shaping developments in policy and practice in British Columbia and beyond. It is a four-year professional program designed to prepare graduates for the current and future scope of pharmacy practice in healthcare settings such as community, primary care, ambulatory care, and hospital practice; and for industry, government, and other specialized fields.
The
Flexible (Flex) Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD)
Program offers the highest quality education to working pharmacists who wish to advance their current practice or explore new career opportunities. To accommodate working pharmacists’ family, community, and professional obligations the Program offers flexible course plans, so that you can complete the didactic and  practicum coursework around your schedule.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
Open All
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Pharmaceutical Sciences (PhD)
Master of Science in Pharmaceutical Sciences (MSc)
Further Information
Specialization
Pharmaceutical Sciences
Pharmaceutical Sciences covers research areas of nanomedicine, drug delivery; drug metabolism, pharmacokinetics and toxicology; pharmacogenomics and pharmacogenetics; diabetes, cardiovascular and molecular pharmacology; neuropharmacology; cancer pharmacology; pharmaceutical health outcomes and pharmacotherapeutics; and pharmaceutical education.
UBC Calendar
http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,213,956,0
Program Website
https://pharmsci.ubc.ca/programs
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Academic Unit
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Program Website
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver