Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-counselling-psychology

Doctor of Philosophy in Counselling Psychology (PhD)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Philosophy in Counselling Psychology (PhD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Counselling Psychology Program, in line with the mission of the research-intensive University of British Columbia, creates, advances and critically examines knowledge in counselling psychology, especially with respect to its validity, applicability, limits, and interface with other disciplines. In developing and applying pertinent and innovative research methodologies, the Counselling Psychology Program relies upon and builds qualitative and quantitative evidence to determine effective counselling interventions in educational, community, health, and occupational settings.
Our Doctoral Program is accredited by the Canadian Psychological Association and follows the scientist-practitioner model for the education of counselling psychologists: students receive a substantial education as both researchers and professional psychologists.  Designed for those with relevant experience who want to gain doctoral level competence, this program enhances research, counselling theory, and counselling skills.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
I decided to study at UBC because the Counselling Psychology program prepares its students to be excellent researchers as well as clinicians.
Katie McCloskey
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Education
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Dissertation
Academic Unit
Department of Educational & Counselling Psychology, and Special Education
Specialization
Counselling Psychology
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 90
Reading
22
Writing
22
Speaking
22
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is required by all applicants.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
20 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
01 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
15 December 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
01 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
15 December 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Counselling Psychology (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Criminal Record Check
This program contains a practicum component for which a
criminal record check
is required.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
From September 2024 all full-time students in UBC-Vancouver PhD programs will be provided with a funding package of at least $24,000 for each of the first four years of their PhD. The funding package may consist of any combination of internal or external awards, teaching-related work, research assistantships, and graduate academic assistantships. Please note that many graduate programs provide funding packages that are substantially greater than $24,000 per year. Please check with your prospective graduate program for specific details of the funding provided to its PhD students.
Average Funding
Based on the criteria outlined below,
14
students within this program were included in this study because they received funding through UBC in the form of teaching, research, academic assistantships or internal or external awards averaging
$34,847
.
2 students received Teaching Assistantships. Average TA funding based on 2 students was $10,800.
8 students received Research Assistantships. Average RA funding based on 8 students was $7,089.
1 student received Academic Assistantships valued at $2,700.
14 students received internal awards. Average internal award funding based on 14 students was $12,751.
9 students received external awards. Average external award funding based on 9 students was $25,370.
Study Period: Sep 2022 to Aug 2023 - average funding for full-time PhD students enrolled in three terms per academic year in this program across years 1-4, the period covered by
UBC's Minimum Funding Guarantee
. Averages might mask variability in sources and amounts of funding received by individual students. Beyond year 4, funding packages become even more individualized.
Review methodology
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Outcomes
52 students graduated between 2005 and 2013. Of these, career information was obtained for 50 alumni (based on research conducted between Feb-May 2016):
RI (Research-Intensive) Faculty: typically tenure-track faculty positions (equivalent of the North American Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor positions) in PhD-granting institutions
TI (Teaching-Intensive) Faculty: typically full-time faculty positions in colleges or in institutions not granting PhDs, and teaching faculty at PhD-granting institutions
Term Faculty: faculty in term appointments (e.g. sessional lecturers, visiting assistant professors, etc.)
Sample Employers in Higher Education
University of British Columbia (7)
Adler University (3)
Kwantlen Polytechnic University (2)
Trinity Western University (2)
Douglas College (2)
Simon Fraser University (2)
Smith College
Langara College
University of Chile
Royal Roads University
Sample Employers Outside Higher Education
A.T. Malcolm and Associates (2)
Surrey Memorial Hospital
Simon Cunningham School
Caribbean Mental Health Consultants
Richmond Counseling
Doctors of BC
Orion Health Rehabilitation Centres
Creative Transitions
Campbell and Fairweather Psychology Group
Grace Fertility
Sample Job Titles Outside Higher Education
Psychologist (14)
Registered Psychologist (3)
Senior Clinical Practice Manager
Clinical Psychologist
Counselling Pscyhology
Psychologist/ Performance Consultant
Psychotherapist
Vocational Rehabilitation Consultant/Clinical Counsellor
Counselor
Practice Initiative Lead
PhD Career Outcome Survey
You may view the full report on career outcomes of UBC PhD graduates on
outcomes.grad.ubc.ca
.
Disclaimer
These data represent historical employment information and do not guarantee future employment prospects for graduates of this program. They are for informational purposes only. Data were collected through either alumni surveys or internet research.
Career Options
Students will be prepared for careers as researchers, practitioners, and educators in a wide variety of settings including academic, clinical, community, business, private practice, and research. Our graduates hold positions such as staff psychologist, research manager, professor, director, department head, clinical counsellor, vocational rehabilitation consultant, team leader, behavioural consultant, group facilitator, and psychoanalyst.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Doctor of Philosophy in Counselling Psychology (PhD). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
13
21
17
19
25
Offers
3
2
3
4
6
New Registrations
2
2
3
4
5
Total Enrolment
31
32
32
35
37
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
82%
based on 22 students admitted between 2011 - 2014. Based on 15 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 4.1 years and the maximum time is 11.32 years with an average of
6.17 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Upcoming Doctoral Exams
Friday, 1 November 2024 - 9:00am
Syler Hayes
Comparing the Outcomes of Identity Focused Versus Career Focused Group Interventions for Maintaining Non-Problematic Alcohol Use
Wednesday, 6 November 2024 - 9:00am
Andrea Bennett
Exploring the Lived Experience of Vicarious Resilience among Canadian Psychotherapists Treating Complex Trauma
Monday, 2 December 2024 - 10:00am
Lauren Currie
Examining the Use of an Identity Focused Group Intervention in Facilitating Identity Change in a Problematic Substance Use Sample
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Counselling Psychology (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Bedi, Robinder
(Counselling psychology; Investigating counselling and psychotherapy as Western cultural healing practices; Counselling psychology disciplinary and professional issues in Canada; Heterodox issues in counselling psychology that challenge its dominant narratives and sacred ideas; Counselling/psychotherapy/mental health with Punjabi/Sikh individuals; Neglected topics in the Psychology of Men and Masculinity)
Borgen, William
(Career Counselling, Career/life transitions, Developmental approaches to counselling, Group counselling)
Cox, Daniel
(Counselling psychology; Motivations and Emotions; Anxiety; depression; Mental Health and Society; stress; Suicide)
Haverkamp, Beth
(Counselling Process Research, Ethics and Professional Issues, Research Design)
Hubley, Anita
(Psychological and health measurement; test development and validation; adult neuropsychological, personality, and mental health topics and assessment; research with general community and vulnerable populations (e.g. elderly, homeless, drug addicted))
Miller, Kenneth
(Mindfulness and its incorporation into mental health interventions in settings of adversity, Development of culturally grounded assessment and evaluation tools, The use of mixed-methods in intervention development and evaluation research)
Park, CJ
(Vocational psychology; Career counseling; diversity and social justice; critical consciousness; international and cross-cultural psychology; interventions)
Tomfohr-Madsen, Lianne
Doctoral Citations
A
doctoral citation
summarizes the nature of the independent research, provides a high-level overview of the study, states the significance of the work and says who will benefit from the findings in clear, non-specialized language, so that members of a lay audience will understand it.
Citation contains
Items
10
25
50
100
Year
Citation
2024
Dr. Heaslip examined the unsolicited help receiving experiences of persons with visual impairments, targeting what is and isn't helpful during these interactions. The prominent themes identified were consent, assumptions, courtesy, consideration and respect. Findings were used to generate recommendations for navigating these complex interactions.
2024
Dr. Bridger interviewed Hard of Hearing (HoH) students transitioning to their neighbourhood high school. She created a theory of the transition that highlights parallels with typically hearing peers, but also amplifies barriers faced by HoH students. The theory informs HoH teens and teachers of HoH students' struggles and ways to support them.
2024
Dr. Baugh studied the barriers and facilitators of coping among women veteran survivors of military sexual trauma. Illustrated in the women veterans' narratives is the importance of safety and support to move beyond survival strategies and towards meaningful facilitators of coping, and the crucial need for systemic reformation in military culture.
2023
Dr. Huang explored the transition experiences of military veterans as they pursued post-secondary studies. The findings from the research are intended to nurture cultural awareness for the unique needs of this population, as well as to enhance practices and policies on Canadian campuses towards better supporting this student population.
2023
Dr. Gendron explored gay, bisexual, and queer men's narrative positioning in sexual stories using an innovative reflective storytelling method. Focusing on perceived possibilities and pleasures in sex, Dr. Gendron's research offers a critical response to existing frameworks that regulate sex between men and socialize men away from connection.
2023
Dr. Beyer investigated the role of embodiment in young women's experience of sexual satisfaction. Research findings illustrated how young women's experiences of embodiment are intertwined not only with sexual satisfaction, but related aspects of sexuality including sexual desire and pleasure.
2023
Dr. O'Loughlin examined the impact of traditional masculinity on Canadian Veteran men's psychosocial functioning and psychotherapeutic treatment outcome. Her research elucidates the situational nature of masculinity in the context of mental health and points to the importance of gender sensitive interventions for veteran populations.
2022
Dr. Munro examined relational processes between sexual and gender minority youth and their parents, and how these processes contribute to the youth's identity formation. Findings show a dynamic and goal-oriented identity construction process and provide insight into complex relationship processes that facilitate youth identity construction.
2022
Dr. McDaniel examined how frontline community workers maintain wellness while responding to the fentanyl overdose crisis. Participant responses focused on collective ethics, social support, work-life balance, structural supports, and individual strategies. These findings make clear the crucial need to advocate for increased worker resources.
2021
Dr. Wojcik studied how cognitive and affective processes affect trauma-related distress in adults. She found that across populations maladaptive cognitions can worsen negative self-appraisals following traumatic events. This knowledge will help improve clinical interventions for PTSD, depression, and other forms of trauma-related distress.
Pages
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
The influence of intergenerational knowledge and connections on adult adoptee sense of self
Ts’iyenï kwin ghineendïl (everyone came back to the fire)
Skilled immigrant Eastern European women doing well with career change at mid-life
Research-based theatre in counselling psychology : centering trans ways of knowing
Keep your hands to yourself and use your words : a condescendingly titled exploration of what helps and hinders people with visual impairments while receiving unsolicited help from sighted people
Coping is a collective responsibility : a narrative inquiry with women veterans on the barriers and facilitators of coping with military sexual trauma
Health and wellness for Métis youth involved with Métis family services : exploring cultural connection through Métis beadwork using photovoice
The process of transitioning to a mainstream high school for hard-of-hearing youth
Positions : possibilities and pleasures in gay, bisexual, and queer men's storytelling
Operation returning to school (Op RTS) : Canadian veterans’ experiences of transitioning to post-secondary studies
From disenfranchisement to integration : young women's narratives of embodiment and sexual satisfaction
The impact of traditional masculinity ideology on veteran mental health and treatment outcome
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Arts in Counselling Psychology (MA)
Master of Education in Counselling Psychology (MEd)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Human Development, Learning, and Culture (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Measurement, Evaluation and Research Methodology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in School and Applied Child Psychology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Special Education (PhD)
Graduate Certificate in Orientation and Mobility (GCOM)
Master of Arts in Human Development, Learning, and Culture (MA)
Master of Arts in Measurement, Evaluation and Research Methodology (MA)
Master of Arts in School and Applied Child Psychology (MA)
Master of Arts in Special Education (MA)
Master of Education in Human Development, Learning, and Culture (MEd)
Master of Education in Measurement, Evaluation and Research Methodology (MEd)
Master of Education in School and Applied Child Psychology (MEd)
Master of Education in Special Education (MEd)
Further Information
Specialization
Counselling Psychology
Programs of research reflect the core values and foci of the discipline of Counselling Psychology: career development, health and wellness, indigenous healing, gender and cultural diversity, disability, and social justice issues. Faculty members are involved in a wide range of research activities including intercultural counselling, First Nations counselling, career development and counselling, stress and coping, sexuality and reproductive health, disabilities, trauma, working with families and children in school settings, prevention of anxiety disorders, and empirically supported approaches utilizing both quantitative and qualitative methodologies.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/counselling-psychology
Program Website
https://ecps.educ.ubc.ca/counselling-psychology/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Education
Academic Unit
Department of Educational & Counselling Psychology, and Special Education
Program Identifier
VGDPHD-EW
Classification
Counselling psychology
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
20 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
International Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ECPSubc/
https://twitter.com/ECPS_ubc/
https://www.youtube.com/user/ECPSubc/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Alejandra Botia
Throughout my undergraduate, master’s, and PhD programs, I have felt grateful to access a globally recognized university. Beyond being a stunning place, I chose to continue my graduate degree at UBC because of the invaluable friendships and professional relationships that I have built over the...
Sarah Panofsky
My PhD will be my fourth UBC degree and I am confident that the university will provide me with the comprehensiveness, relevance, and rigour that I seek in my studies. Connection to place is also important. Studying at UBC allows me to maintain relationships with the communities in Northwest BC...
Christine Yu
I had a wonderful experience during the Master’s program at UBC and felt a sense of community, with excellent support from my supervisor. Once I was ready to pursue a doctoral degree, I wanted to re-engage in that type of supportive environment while stretching the boundaries of my clinical and...
Why should you choose UBC?
From academic excellence and modern facilities to our diverse degree program listings to being named one of the “most innovative universities” by Reuters in 2019, UBC has a lot to offer.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC