Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-experimental-medicine

Doctor of Philosophy in Experimental Medicine (PhD)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Philosophy in Experimental Medicine (PhD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
Experimental Medicine is the study of the pathogenesis and treatment of disease. Modern experimental medicine represents a rapidly growing body of knowledge involving the determination of diseases processes and the development of appropriate therapies.
The Experimental Medicine Program is intended for individuals seeking a career in research. The Department of Medicine offers opportunities and facilities for advanced studies in Experimental medicine, leading toward the M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees. Members of the Department direct research programs in a wide range of basic and clinically relevant areas. There are a variety of special interest areas of national and international stature. Specialties within the Experimental Medicine Program include: Cardiology, Endocrinology, Gastroenterology, Hematology, Infectious Diseases, Medical Immunology, Medical Oncology, Molecular Biology, Nephrology, Neurology and Respiratory Medicine.
The principal emphasis of this graduate program is training in research. Success at this level is traditionally measured by the preparation and defense of a thesis. Course work is required of all students, based on the background of the candidate and the degree program. The work of each Ph.D. candidate will be supervised by a candidate’s Committee consisting of not fewer than three members. These may include faculty members from a department other than that in which the candidate is writing the thesis.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
The group of people we work with at UBC are ambitious, supportive, humble, and enthusiastic. I'm just excited to be part of the team and get to work with such amazing people every day.
Jordan Bird
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Medicine
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Dissertation
Academic Unit
Experimental Medicine Program
Specialization
Experimental Medicine
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for May 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
Applicants are not required to have a supervisor at the time of applying, but the application won't be reviewed until they secure a supervisor and all required paperwork is submitted.
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 96
Reading
22
Writing
22
Speaking
22
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
7.0
Writing
7.0
Speaking
7.0
Listening
7.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
For admission to the PhD program in Experimental Medicine, the student must hold a M.Sc. degree in life sciences, biology, zoology, biochemistry, or related disciplines.
2) Meet Deadlines
May 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 May 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
31 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
31 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
31 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
31 December 2024
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 May 2025
Transcript Deadline:
31 May 2025
Referee Deadline:
31 May 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 April 2025
Transcript Deadline:
30 April 2025
Referee Deadline:
30 April 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Experimental Medicine (PhD)
All applicants need firm commitment from a supervisor prior to applying.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
Effective September 2024, successful applicants who will start the Ph.D. program and who do not hold a major scholarship, will receive a minimum stipend of $30,000 per year from their supervisor.
Average Funding
Based on the criteria outlined below,
48
students within this program were included in this study because they received funding through UBC in the form of teaching, research, academic assistantships or internal or external awards averaging
$33,763
.
1 student received Teaching Assistantships valued at $3,372.
37 students received Research Assistantships. Average RA funding based on 37 students was $20,467.
7 students received Academic Assistantships. Average AA funding based on 7 students was $3,906.
48 students received internal awards. Average internal award funding based on 48 students was $10,058.
13 students received external awards. Average external award funding based on 13 students was $26,914.
Study Period: Sep 2022 to Aug 2023 - average funding for full-time PhD students enrolled in three terms per academic year in this program across years 1-4, the period covered by
UBC's Minimum Funding Guarantee
. Averages might mask variability in sources and amounts of funding received by individual students. Beyond year 4, funding packages become even more individualized.
Review methodology
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Outcomes
124 students graduated between 2005 and 2013: 1 graduate is seeking employment; for 16 we have no data (based on research conducted between Feb-May 2016). For the remaining 107 graduates:
RI (Research-Intensive) Faculty: typically tenure-track faculty positions (equivalent of the North American Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor positions) in PhD-granting institutions
TI (Teaching-Intensive) Faculty: typically full-time faculty positions in colleges or in institutions not granting PhDs, and teaching faculty at PhD-granting institutions
Term Faculty: faculty in term appointments (e.g. sessional lecturers, visiting assistant professors, etc.)
Sample Employers in Higher Education
University of British Columbia (30)
Stanford University (4)
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (2)
University of Toronto (2)
Universite de Montreal (2)
University of Alberta
Emory University
McGill University
University of Cambridge
China Medical University
Sample Employers Outside Higher Education
AstraZeneca (3)
Takeda Canada Inc. (2)
Vancouver Coastal Health (2)
STEMCELL Technologies (2)
Pfizer (2)
Provincial Health Services Authority (2)
Omniox Inc.
Vancouver General Hospital
Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation
Epidemico
Sample Job Titles Outside Higher Education
Medical Science Liaison (4)
Postdoctoral Fellow (4)
Research Associate (3)
Senior Scientist (3)
Research Scientist (3)
Postdoctoral Research Fellow (2)
Epidemiologist (2)
Associate Research Scientist
Director of Business Development
Technology Specialist
PhD Career Outcome Survey
You may view the full report on career outcomes of UBC PhD graduates on
outcomes.grad.ubc.ca
.
Disclaimer
These data represent historical employment information and do not guarantee future employment prospects for graduates of this program. They are for informational purposes only. Data were collected through either alumni surveys or internet research.
Alumni on Success
Kevin Johns
Job Title
Medical Science Liaison
Employer
AstraZeneca Canada
Andrew Ming-Lum
Job Title
Associate
Employer
Gowling WLG (Canada) LLP
Poh  Tan
Job Title
Founder and CEO
Employer
Innoguidance Consulting
Marc Sze
Job Title
Postdoctoral Fellow
Employer
University of Michigan
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Doctor of Philosophy in Experimental Medicine (PhD). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
15
20
36
26
32
Offers
7
11
20
8
15
New Registrations
6
10
13
7
14
Total Enrolment
98
85
94
114
120
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
87%
based on 113 students admitted between 2011 - 2014. Based on 47 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 3.07 years and the maximum time is 9.22 years with an average of
5.92 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Upcoming Doctoral Exams
Monday, 18 November 2024 - 4:00pm - Room 203
Katarzyna Kabacinska
End-User Perspectives on Social Robots to Support Mental Health in the Hospital and at Home
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Experimental Medicine (PhD)
All applicants need firm commitment from a supervisor prior to applying.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Afshar, Kourosh
(Genital reconstruction and pediatric renal transplant)
Aparicio, Samuel
(Breast cancer, genome sequencing )
Ashe, Maureen
(Mobile health (mHealth); Knowledge translation and implementation science in health; Patient and citizen engagement research; Physical therapy)
Atiquzzaman, Mohammad
(pharmacoepidemiologic studies)
Av-Gay, Yossef
(Tuberculosis)
Avina, Antonio
(Systemic Autoimmune Rheumatic Diseases (SARDs); Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE); Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA); Long term effectiveness; Multivariate analyses; Outcomes assessment; Pharmaco-epidemiology)
Ayas, Najib
(public health and safety consequences of sleep apnea and sleep deprivation)
Barbic, Skye
(Occupational therapy; Rehabilitation medicine; assessment; community integration; health and well-being; Implementation Science; Individual Placement Support; measurement; Mental Health and Society; mental health; metrology; Patient Engagement; Rasch Measurement Theory; recovery; Supported Employment; youth)
Beristain, Alexander Guillermo
(Healthy Starts; cellular and molecular processes that direct trophoblast cell biology in early placental development; Examining the A Disintegrin And Metalloproteinase (ADAM) family in trophoblast biology; Examining the effects of obesity-associated inflammation on the maternal-fetal interface; Identifying gene expression differences in subpopulations of trophoblasts in normal and pathological pregnancies )
Black, Peter
(Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms (especially equality rights); Canadian human rights legislation )
Blanke, Philipp
Blydt-Hansen, Tom
(Childhood Diseases; Pediatric kidney transplant; Injury phenotype; Rejection; Biomarkers; Metabolomics; Chemokines)
Boyd, Lara
(Neurosciences, biological and chemical aspects; Neurosciences, medical and physiological and health aspects; Physical therapy; Rehabilitation medicine; Learning; Learning and Memory; Motor System; Motor learning; Neurophysiology; Physiology; Plasticity / Neuronal Regeneration; stroke)
Boyd, Jade
Brauer, Michael
(Environmental and occupational health and safety; Health sciences; Public and population health; air pollution; built environment; Community Health / Public Health; environmental health; environmental epidemiology; healthy cities; remote sensing)
Brigham, Emily
(Asthma; COPD)
Brubacher, Jeffrey
(drugs and driving, alcohol impaired driving, road safety )
Brumme, Chanson
Brunham, Liam
(Medical, health and life sciences; Lipids; Genetics; Pharmacogenomics; Cardiovascular diseases)
Brussoni, Mariana
(Developmental psychology; Psychosocial, sociocultural and behavioral determinants of health; Population health interventions; injury prevention; Children's outdoor play; Risky play; Parenting; health behaviour change; Implementation Science)
Bryan, Stirling
(Economics of health care, policy, from UK)
Camp, Pat
(Physical therapy; Rehabilitation medicine)
Carleton, Bruce
(Pediatrics, clinical pharmacology, outcomes research, drug policy evaluation, health services research, drug safety and adverse drug reactions)
Carlsten, Christopher
(Environment and Respiratory Diseases)
Cembrowski, Mark Steven
(Molecular neuroscience; Mathematical modelling and simulation; Mechanisms of memory in the brain; Anxiety; Big Data; Bioinformatics; Cell types; Computation; CRISPR-Cas9; Fear; Genetics; modeling; Neural circuits; neuroscience; Neuroscience of memory; PTSD; RNAseq)
Pages
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
next ›
last »
Doctoral Citations
A
doctoral citation
summarizes the nature of the independent research, provides a high-level overview of the study, states the significance of the work and says who will benefit from the findings in clear, non-specialized language, so that members of a lay audience will understand it.
Citation contains
Items
10
25
50
100
Year
Citation
2024
Dr. Tabrizian's research identified ROR2 as a key receptor promoting cellular plasticity in prostate cancer. Her findings suggest ROR2 as a therapeutic target to combat aggressive AR-independent tumor phenotypes. This could enhance responses to androgen receptor pathway inhibitors and prevent lineage plasticity.
2024
Dr. Han's research delves into the ingenious strategies employed by our intestinal cells to detect and combat the food-borne pathogen Salmonella. These tactics include promoting mucus secretion to expel the pathogen, releasing signals to enlist immune cell reinforcements, and, remarkably, self-sacrifice to eliminate the invading bacteria.
2024
Dr. Li made a groundbreaking discovery in cancer research, identifying a unique metabolic pathway that mediates chemoresistance in cancers. This potential druggable target could revolutionize the approach to overcoming chemotherapy resistance, offering new hope for effective cancer treatment.
2024
Dr. Montgomery studied the effect of different milks on the nutritional status of toddlers and the foods that contribute to the intake of nutrients required for early growth and development. Her work contributes new knowledge that will serve for the derivation of age-specific feeding recommendations and dietary guidelines.
2024
In his doctoral work, Dr. Sravan developed the Personally Meaningful Outcomes-Assessment Process (PMO-AP) to gauge treatment effectiveness. A study with 50 participants demonstrated PMO-AP's reliability, validity and practicality. This patient-centered approach provides clinicians with a versatile tool to evaluate treatments for chronic conditions.
2024
Dr. Tung investigated the disease mechanisms underlying heart attacks and cardiac hypertrophy by combining experimental medicine and data science. His study, published in Nature Communications, highlights the importance of timing and spatial considerations of treatment for heart diseases, providing a blueprint for future clinical research.
2024
Using epidemiological and implementation science methods, Dr. Romanowski explored the long-term impact of tuberculosis and what we can do to support tuberculosis survivors.
2024
Dr. Li conducted research on the association between TNF inhibitors and multiple sclerosis in four Canadian provinces. An increased risk of multiple sclerosis was found in users of TNF inhibitors. This finding is vital for healthcare practitioners to weigh the benefits and risks of TNF inhibitors, ultimately guiding safer medical decisions.
2024
Around the world people breathe in polluted air that irritates their lungs and causes inflammation. Dr. Huff's research demonstrated that current anti-inflammatory asthma medications increase common cold infections in human lung cells exposed to pollution, and identified three new medicines that reduce air pollution induced inflammation.
2024
Dr. Orach investigated the dose-response to controlled air pollution exposure in a clinical trial. He identified blood proteins, breath measurements and symptoms that are closely related to diesel exhaust levels. This research facilitates health monitoring and improves our ability to assess and mitigate the harmful impacts of air pollution.
Pages
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
Prostate cancer lineage plasticity is associated with an altered MYC/MAX cistrome through super-enhancer remodeling
Defining the functional impact of three new human primary immune regulatory disorders caused by defects in genes NFATC2, STAT6 and OSMR
Understanding T cell and gut interactions in early post-natal life
Exploring the dietary intake and status of key nutrients involved in toddler development
Ocular tissue engineering : rebuilding the retina with stem cells
Deciphering the heterogeneity and functional role of the cardiac stroma in health and disease
Oncofetal chondroitin sulfate as a target in solid tumors
Regulation and targeting of chondroitin sulfate in pediatric solid tumors
Premature atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease : challenges in risk assessment and prevention
Investigating clozapine as a pharmacotherapy option in co-occurring disorders
Harnessing T cells that detect mismatched HLA to monitor and prevent allo- and autoimmunity
Pulsed photothermal therapy as a precondition for immune checkpoint blockade
Surface photosterilization of implantable biomaterials : applications in urology and dentistry
Evaluating the association between anti-TNFα treatment and multiple sclerosis risk in autoimmune conditions : insights from health administrative data and methodological challenges
Notch1 signaling plays an essential role in metabolic rewiring in chemoresistance prostate cancer
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Science in Experimental Medicine (MSc)
Further Information
Specialization
Experimental Medicine
Experimental Medicine offers research opportunities in the following specialties: cardiology, cancer biology, dermatology, gastroenterology, hematology/oncology, infectious diseases, molecular medicine, nephrology, neurology, and respiratory medicine. All these fields can involve patients and/or experimental animal models.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/experimental-medicine
Program Website
https://exp.med.ubc.ca/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Medicine
Academic Unit
Experimental Medicine Program
Program Identifier
VGDPHD-QB
Classification
Pathogenesis
Cardiology and circulatory sciences (including cardiovascular disease)
Immune diseases
Respiratory diseases
Human endocrinology (except diabetes and obesity)
Gastroenterology
Hematology
Infectious diseases
Cellular immunology
Nephrology
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for May 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
May 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 May 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
15 December 2024
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 May 2025
International Applicant Deadline
15 April 2025
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Narsis Daftarian
The experimental medicine program at UBC provides a uniquely wide spectrum range of study for graduate students like medical doctors who want to become professionally trained in clinical, population-based as well as basic science research. This program also offers a long list of diverse courses...
Katarzyna Kabacinska
I fell in love with the UBC campus the first time I saw a brochure of it back in high school. Then, my dreams came true when I received a Vantage College Excellence Award which allowed me to move to Vancouver and obtain an undergraduate degree from UBC. I feel extremely privileged to be able to...
Ashley Gilliland
I was fortunate as a child to grow up in the greater Vancouver area and was eager to return home to continue my academic endeavors. Luckily for me, UBC is one of the top microbiology research schools in Canada and is host to a wealth of world-class researchers. UBC also provides access to cutting-...
1 of 3
next ›
Start calling Vancouver “Home”
The metropolitan area is known for its diversity and UBC is one of the most international universities in Canada. This multicultural community means we have a wide range of restaurants, grocery stores, and events to provide a sense of belonging.