Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-interdisciplinary-studies

Doctor of Philosophy in Interdisciplinary Studies (PhD)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Philosophy in Interdisciplinary Studies (PhD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Interdisciplinary Studies Graduate Program (ISGP) at the University of British Columbia was established in 1971, the first of its kind in Canada. It is one of the only Canadian programs to offer doctoral degrees in interdisciplinary studies, and is possibly one of the largest of its kind in North America.
The main purpose of the ISGP is to enable qualified graduate students to pursue advanced interdisciplinary research exceeding the provisions of existing departmental programs. There are no restrictions regarding the topic and in many cases the student draws upon expertise from several distinct faculties. The prospective student has to bring together three or four qualified faculty from different departments or units. Because there are no constraints on which fields are brought together, there are virtually no two students in the same sub-field. The ISGP is designed only for a highly motivated and superb student who can steer an independent course.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
ISGP gives you the opportunity to:
pursue interdisciplinary research that is individually designed by the student
select courses and research supervisors from every department at UBC
participate in interdisciplinary lectures, workshops and seminars
apply for funding for exceptional students
I learned about UBC’s Interdisciplinary Studies Graduate Program (ISGP) from a colleague who was working and studying at Simon Fraser University. I researched the program and quickly learned that at UBC I could learn to be creatively and intellectually ambidextrous, working with both hands simultaneously, integrating both sides of my brain. Now, as a Public Scholar, I can find ways to share and hone my work with the community and public partners, adding another dimension of rigor and insight to my research.
Susan Sechrist
Quick Facts
Faculty
Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Dissertation
Academic Unit
Interdisciplinary Studies Graduate Program
Specialization
Interdisciplinary Studies
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
Please see
ISGP website
for complete list of required documents.
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 90
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Document Requirements
Please see
ISGP website
for complete list of required documents.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
01 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
08 December 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
01 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
08 December 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Interdisciplinary Studies (PhD)
All applicants need firm commitment from a supervisor prior to applying.
IMPORTANT: In order to ensure stability and appropriate level of support from your supervisory team, it is crucial that at least one of your proposed co-supervisors is a
G+PS member
who is tenured or tenure track faculty member holding the rank of Assistant/Associate/Full Professor (verify by entering name
here
).
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
All full-time students in UBC-Vancouver PhD programs will be provided with a funding package of at least $24,000 for each of the first four years of their PhD from September 2024. The funding package may consist of any combination of internal or external awards, teaching-related work, research assistantships, and graduate academic assistantships. Please note that many graduate programs provide funding packages that are substantially greater than $24,000 per year. Please check with your prospective graduate program for specific details of the funding provided to its PhD students.
Average Funding
Based on the criteria outlined below,
44
students within this program were included in this study because they received funding through UBC in the form of teaching, research, academic assistantships or internal or external awards averaging
$28,928
.
6 students received Teaching Assistantships. Average TA funding based on 6 students was $9,532.
13 students received Research Assistantships. Average RA funding based on 13 students was $20,892.
8 students received Academic Assistantships. Average AA funding based on 8 students was $7,509.
44 students received internal awards. Average internal award funding based on 44 students was $12,361.
14 students received external awards. Average external award funding based on 14 students was $24,258.
Study Period: Sep 2022 to Aug 2023 - average funding for full-time PhD students enrolled in three terms per academic year in this program across years 1-4, the period covered by
UBC's Minimum Funding Guarantee
. Averages might mask variability in sources and amounts of funding received by individual students. Beyond year 4, funding packages become even more individualized.
Review methodology
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Outcomes
72 students graduated between 2005 and 2013. Of these, career information was obtained for 66 alumni (based on research conducted between Feb-May 2016):
RI (Research-Intensive) Faculty: typically tenure-track faculty positions (equivalent of the North American Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor positions) in PhD-granting institutions
TI (Teaching-Intensive) Faculty: typically full-time faculty positions in colleges or in institutions not granting PhDs, and teaching faculty at PhD-granting institutions
Term Faculty: faculty in term appointments (e.g. sessional lecturers, visiting assistant professors, etc.)
Sample Employers in Higher Education
University of British Columbia (11)
Simon Fraser University (7)
Western University (Ontario)
Capilano University
Ryerson University
Swinburne University of Technology
University of Alberta
Providence University College
Stanford University
Dalhousie University
Sample Employers Outside Higher Education
Vancouver Coastal Health (2)
BC Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS
Child Health BC
St. Michael's Hospital
TandemLaunch
BC Centre for Improved Cardiovascular Health
Nigel Haggan & Associates
Government of Canada
RCMP
The White Mountain School
Sample Job Titles Outside Higher Education
Consultant (5)
International Chief Evaluator, President
General Partner
Developmental Consultant
Psychiatrist
Veterinarian, Animal welfare advocate
Project Manager
Postdoctoral Research Fellow
Teacher
Scientist
PhD Career Outcome Survey
You may view the full report on career outcomes of UBC PhD graduates on
outcomes.grad.ubc.ca
.
Disclaimer
These data represent historical employment information and do not guarantee future employment prospects for graduates of this program. They are for informational purposes only. Data were collected through either alumni surveys or internet research.
Career Options
Many employers are increasingly interested in hiring people with broader backgrounds than are provided by traditional programs. For example, in some academic settings, it is a real advantage to be versatile enough to teach in several areas and to interact with researchers across a broad spectrum of interests. The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies offers a wide range of
seminars and workshops
on professional development. The UBC
Centre for Student Involvement and Careers
provides support in helping students navigate career options.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Doctor of Philosophy in Interdisciplinary Studies (PhD). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
25
24
30
22
36
Offers
13
9
9
12
14
New Registrations
12
8
9
11
11
Total Enrolment
73
75
83
77
87
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
65%
based on 57 students admitted between 2011 - 2014. Based on 31 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 2.73 years and the maximum time is 10.25 years with an average of
6.07 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Upcoming Doctoral Exams
Monday, 9 December 2024 - 9:00am - Room 203
Jennica Nichols
Expanding the Conceptualization of Research-based Theatre to Better Use it as a Knowledge Translation Intervention Supporting Person-Centered Interventions: A Canadian Case Study
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Interdisciplinary Studies (PhD)
All applicants need firm commitment from a supervisor prior to applying.
IMPORTANT: In order to ensure stability and appropriate level of support from your supervisory team, it is crucial that at least one of your proposed co-supervisors is a
G+PS member
who is tenured or tenure track faculty member holding the rank of Assistant/Associate/Full Professor (verify by entering name
here
).
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Kerr, Thomas
(harm reduction, injection drug users, HIV / AIDS, safe injection site, addiction, HIV/AIDS, injection drug use, health policy and service evaluation, and community-based research methods)
Kornelsen, Jude
(providing an evidence base to inform decisions on the planning of rural maternity services; advancing our understanding of women)
Kuhl, David
(understanding compassion fatigue/vicarious trauma, burnout, moral distress, grief, and psychological well being in health care providers)
Kwon, Brian
(Spinal cord injury)
Loock, Christine Ann
(Brain, Behaviour & Development; Social Pediatrics; Health Inequities; Child-health medical-home: children/families, integration / patient care / community services; Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders; Pediatric Sleep Disorders)
Ogrodniczuk, John
(Mental Health and Society; Psychodynamic Psychotherapy; Personality Disorders; Group Psychotherapy; Men’s Mental Health; Alexithymia; Athletes)
Shannon, Kate
(epidemiology, HIV/AIDS, sex work, public health, community health, gender epidemiology, health prevention, social determinants of health, community-based research, gender inequities, sexual health, vulnerable populations, structural determinants, qualitative evaluations, HIV/STI prevention, Social determinants of sexual health, HIV/AIDS and access to care among marginalized populations, particularly youth, sex workers, and women at-risk and living with HIV)
Doctoral Citations
A
doctoral citation
summarizes the nature of the independent research, provides a high-level overview of the study, states the significance of the work and says who will benefit from the findings in clear, non-specialized language, so that members of a lay audience will understand it.
Citation contains
Items
10
25
50
100
Year
Citation
2024
Dr. Castrejon Violante found that explicit constitutional recognition of the right to food is an effective way to comprehensively address food systems' challenges and advance the right's realization. Her work highlights the importance of constitutional entrenchment of human rights and the need for further implementation research.
2024
Dr. Oswald's doctoral research focused on developing a coastal zone management framework for BC coastal nations which incorporates economic valuation of ecosystem services. His research will help address environmental impacts that are traditionally not accounted for in decision making, leading to more environmentally sustainable outcomes.
2024
Dr. Dainaraviciute studied resilience, exploring how ethnoracial minority youth navigated racism. Her critical interdisciplinary analysis uncovers the complexities of youth lived experiences. Specifically, she highlights the creative solutions youth developed to cope with the subtle and hidden forms of everyday racism that are prevalent in Canada.
2024
Dr. Gryba, in partnership with Inupiat hunters, developed new methods to include Indigenous Knowledge in statistical models as a sole data source and with animal movement data. This work highlights Indigenous Knowledge that is not available in scientific data, and provides new ways for Indigenous Knowledge to be included in species management.
2023
Dr. Mayer used critical ethnographic methods to explore how social and structural factors impacted why and how people engage with injectable opioid agonist treatment. Her research examined how people navigate the enabling and constraining aspects of treatment, highlighting the importance of low-threshold, equity-oriented and patient-centred care.
2023
Dr. Pilarinos's research explored young people's perspectives on and experiences with medications for opioid use disorder. In addition to identifying policy barriers to treatment access, retention, and cessation, Dr. Pilarinos's research outlined young people's suggestions on ways to improve treatment services in the context of the overdose crisis.
2023
Dr. Accili investigated the ecological imagination of English playwrights William Shakespeare and Ben Jonson. Combining literary and theatre studies with art history and environmental philosophy, her research shows how Renaissance dramatists and artists understood animals and other non-humans in a way that might widen our ecological perspective.
2023
Dr. Kang's doctoral project evaluated how anti-racism and cultural safety paradigms are taken up in local health authorities. The three-phased study highlighted the significant need for provincial and national health organizations to incorporate principles of anti-racism, cultural safety, equity and social justice.
2023
Dr. Mitra examined the role of socioeconomic marginalization in the production of overdose risk in an urban cohort of men and women who use drugs. Findings from this research emphasize the need for gender-informed, multi-level overdose prevention policies and programs to address the ongoing overdose crisis.
2022
Dr. Olding studied overdose prevention sites as a community-based response to the illicit drug poisoning epidemic. Her work highlights the importance of these services being designed by and employing people who use drugs. She identified policy and organizational changes to better support the work of overdose responders with lived expertise.
Pages
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
Ruin conversions : violence, architecture and commemoration in post-1944 Warsaw
Placing the overdose crisis : single room occupancy housing and the production of risk among structurally vulnerable people who use drugs in Vancouver, BC
The community table : building radical collective wellbeing through food justice with and for women on parole in British Columbia
A co(s)mic guide to getting bent : shifting perspectives between science and literature in twentieth-century England
Statue, bear or rogue : ecological objects in Shakespeare and Jonson
Social and structural contexts of injectable opioid agonist treatment : a critical ethnographic study of people's experiences in Vancouver, BC
Imagining museum futures through community-centered curating : representation with and by Chinese Canadian communities
Disruptive stories and cautionary tales : an anti-oppressive autoethnography on digital storytelling
Developing a learning model for teaching film production online
“We dodge each other smiling” : older adults’ social connectedness and everyday well-being during the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond
A systematic framework for coastal zone management and economic valuation of ecosystem services in BC coastal nations
New approaches to understand species-habitat relationship using Indigenous Knowledge and scientific data
The right to food matters : implementing the constitutional right to food in Mexico and Bolivia
Navigating racism and resilience : an interpretive description study of ethnoracial minority youth experiences in Vancouver
Exploring the experience and impact of incarceration for women living with HIV in Metro Vancouver, Canada
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Arts in Interdisciplinary Studies (MA)
Master of Science in Interdisciplinary Studies (MSc)
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Doctor of Philosophy in Interdisciplinary Studies (PhD)
Related Disciplines
Doctor of Philosophy in Economics (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Geography (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in History (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Political Science (PhD)
Further Information
Specialization
Interdisciplinary Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies allows students to design their own graduate program by bringing together three or four qualified faculty from different departments or units. Because there are no constraints on which fields are brought together, there are virtually no two students in the same subfield.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/interdisciplinary-studies
Program Website
https://isgp.ubc.ca/prospective-students/the-program/
Faculty Overview
Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Academic Unit
Interdisciplinary Studies Graduate Program
Program Identifier
VGDPHD-NJ
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
International Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Elaine Williamson
I chose to study at UBC because of its reputation for academic excellence and its strong commitment to Indigenous research and community engagement. UBC offers a unique environment where I can learn and contribute to the body of knowledge on Indigenous entrepreneurship, business and governance...
Alexa Norton
I did my undergraduate degree at UBC and am happy to be back as a doctoral student. I've lived and worked in Vancouver since 2010, and studying at UBC enables me to stay connected and accountable to my community. There are brilliant minds studying and working in my field at UBC and its affiliated...
Kai Jacobsen
UBC is a top research university with many resources available to support community-engaged research and impactful knowledge translation. I am keen to join UBC initiatives related to community-based research and knowledge translation, such as the Public Scholars Initiative and the Centre for...
Raha AtashPa
I chose to study at the University of British Columbia (UBC) for its exceptional commitment to fostering interdisciplinary research and its globally recognized support for innovative art-based scholarship. UBC stands out as a leading institution that not only values but actively promotes the...
1 of 6
next ›
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver