Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-educational-studies

Doctor of Philosophy in Educational Studies (PhD)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Philosophy in Educational Studies (PhD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The PhD in Educational Studies is a research-oriented doctoral program for students interested in any of the study areas offered in the department, such as adult and community education and social movements; citizenship and human rights; continuing professional education; cultural politics, critical multiculturalism and feminist studies; educational leadership and policy; epistemology (the study of knowledge and knowing), ethics, and political philosophy; equity in education (on the axes of race, disability, gender, class, and sexuality); Indigenous education; international and comparative education; media, popular culture and representation or youth and children in schools, families, and communities.
Students are required to take two first-year doctoral seminars and a second-year doctoral seminar. All other courses in a student's program are determined in consultation with faculty. Students in the PhD program typically devote two years to coursework, and two to four years to developing and carrying out a research project designed to make an original contribution to knowledge in the study area.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
I found an integrated program at the University of British Columbia for advancing Indigenous perspectives and decolonial curriculum in education. My graduate program facilitates Indigenous participation and Indigenous content through a concentration of courses in Indigenous education and research supervision from Indigenous faculty.
Daniel Gallardo
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Education
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Dissertation
Academic Unit
Department of Educational Studies
Specialization
Educational Studies
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
Please ensure you follow the instructions in the online application system. After submitting your application, it is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all supporting materials are submitted properly and by the application deadline. The Admissions Committee will only review complete applications. You can check the status of your application and supporting materials through the online application system.
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 92
Reading
22
Writing
22
Speaking
22
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 August 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 November 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 November 2024
Referee Deadline:
29 November 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 November 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 November 2024
Referee Deadline:
29 November 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Educational Studies (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
It is very important to contact at least one EDST faculty member who could be a potential supervisor of your PhD work (i.e. has expertise and interest in the area and/or topic you want to focus on) and inquire whether they would be willing to supervise your work.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
All full-time students in UBC-Vancouver PhD programs will be provided with a funding package of at least $24,000 for each of the first four years of their PhD from September 2024. The funding package may consist of any combination of internal or external awards, teaching-related work, research assistantships, and graduate academic assistantships. Please note that many graduate programs provide funding packages that are substantially greater than $24,000 per year. Please check with your prospective graduate program for specific details of the funding provided to its PhD students.
Average Funding
Based on the criteria outlined below,
22
students within this program were included in this study because they received funding through UBC in the form of teaching, research, academic assistantships or internal or external awards averaging
$33,720
.
5 students received Teaching Assistantships. Average TA funding based on 5 students was $5,974.
9 students received Research Assistantships. Average RA funding based on 9 students was $7,124.
8 students received Academic Assistantships. Average AA funding based on 8 students was $8,159.
22 students received internal awards. Average internal award funding based on 22 students was $20,418.
4 students received external awards. Average external award funding based on 4 students was $29,583.
Study Period: Sep 2022 to Aug 2023 - average funding for full-time PhD students enrolled in three terms per academic year in this program across years 1-4, the period covered by
UBC's Minimum Funding Guarantee
. Averages might mask variability in sources and amounts of funding received by individual students. Beyond year 4, funding packages become even more individualized.
Review methodology
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Outcomes
74 students graduated between 2005 and 2013: 3 graduates are seeking employment; 1 is in a non-salaried situation; for 4 we have no data (based on research conducted between Feb-May 2016). For the remaining 66 graduates:
RI (Research-Intensive) Faculty: typically tenure-track faculty positions (equivalent of the North American Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor positions) in PhD-granting institutions
TI (Teaching-Intensive) Faculty: typically full-time faculty positions in colleges or in institutions not granting PhDs, and teaching faculty at PhD-granting institutions
Term Faculty: faculty in term appointments (e.g. sessional lecturers, visiting assistant professors, etc.)
Sample Employers in Higher Education
University of British Columbia (15)
Kwantlen Polytechnic University (3)
University of the Fraser Valley (2)
Vancouver Island University (2)
Universite Laval
Calvin College
Brock University
University of Calgary
Whatcom Community College
Simon Fraser University
Sample Employers Outside Higher Education
BC School District (2)
World Vision International
Our Lady of Guadalupe Tonantzin Community Society
Yukon Department of Education
Kootenay Boundary Community Services Cooperative
Ismali Tariqua and Religious Education Board
Directions Evidence and Policy Research Group
Southern California Tribal Chairmen's Association
St Paul's Hospital Foundation
Canadian eLearning Network
Sample Job Titles Outside Higher Education
Consultant (2)
Executive director (2)
Owner (2)
Director, Problematic Substance Use Prevention
Education Technical Lead, Integrated Programmes Department
VIce Principal
Author
Consultant (Therapist)
Contract Researcher
Teacher
PhD Career Outcome Survey
You may view the full report on career outcomes of UBC PhD graduates on
outcomes.grad.ubc.ca
.
Disclaimer
These data represent historical employment information and do not guarantee future employment prospects for graduates of this program. They are for informational purposes only. Data were collected through either alumni surveys or internet research.
Alumni on Success
Olen Gunnlaugson
Job Title
Associate Professor in Leadership and Organizational Development
Employer
Université Laval
Randy Wollf
Job Title
President
Employer
PaperLift Document Editing
Kenneth Tupper
Job Title
Director of Implementation &amp; Partnerships
Employer
BC Centre on Substance Use
Kaela Jubas
Job Title
Associate Professor
Employer
University of Calgary
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Doctor of Philosophy in Educational Studies (PhD). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
58
77
80
65
83
Offers
10
7
7
10
8
New Registrations
5
7
3
6
5
Total Enrolment
48
51
54
58
59
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
85%
based on 34 students admitted between 2011 - 2014. Based on 25 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 5.12 years and the maximum time is 11.62 years with an average of
7.51 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Educational Studies (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
It is very important to contact at least one EDST faculty member who could be a potential supervisor of your PhD work (i.e. has expertise and interest in the area and/or topic you want to focus on) and inquire whether they would be willing to supervise your work.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Abdi, Ali
(Comparative and cross-cultural education; Decolonizing philosophies of education, Development education, Critical research methodologies,; Human rights education)
Ahenakew, Cash
(Cultural studies, Higher Education, Indigenous Studies, Leadership and Organizations, Post-colonial studies, Race/ethnicity, Research methodologies, Social justice, Sociology of Education)
Andres, Lesley
(Higher education; life course research; international comparative higher education; sociology of higher education)
De Oliveira Andreotti, Vanessa
(Education for/about international development, Social accountability in local and global engagements, Global Citizenship Education)
Ellis, Jason
(Canadian history; Specialized studies in education; Educational policy; Education policy; history of education)
Fallon, Gerald
(Indigenous Studies, International and Comparative Education, Leadership and Organizations, Policy, Research methodologies)
Gill, Hartej
(Cultural studies, Leadership and Organizations, Post-colonial studies, Teaching and Practice)
Gleason, Mona
(History, archaeology and related studies)
Kelly, Deirdre
(Children and youth, Gender studies, Media and democracy, Social justice, Sociology of Education)
Kovach, Margaret
Mazawi, Andre
(Citizenship and democracy, Higher education, International and Comparative Education, Leadership and organizations, Research methodologies, Sociology of Education)
Metcalfe, Amy
(Higher education; Educational policy; History and philosophy of education; Visual theory, visual culture and visual literacy; Higher Education Studies; Higher Education Policy; Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Higher Education; Science and Knowledge; Internationalization; Migration Studies; Academic Labour and Mobility; Visual Research Methods; Campus Environments)
Rocha Perkerwicz, Samuel
(Educational policy; Specialized studies in education; Philosophical Traditions in Education; philosophy of education)
Roman, Leslie
(Ethnography, Cultural studies, Disability studies, Sociology of Education)
Ruitenberg, Claudia
(History and philosophy of education; Political science and policy administration; Environmental education and extension; Environmental philosophy and education; philosophy of education; Political education)
Shan, Hongxia
(Other education, n.e.c.; Immigration and adult education and learning; Lifelong learning; Gender and work; Prof. learning)
Stack, Michelle
(Adult and continuing education, and community education; Educational policy; Media studies (except social media and digital media); Community Engaged Research; Knowledge translation; Cooperatives and Social Solidarity Economies; University Rankings and Equity; Disability studies; anti-racism; media education)
Stein, Sharon Rebekah
(Higher education; Educational policy; Specialized studies in education; Educational theory; Global education; Higher Education; International and comparative education; International education; Pedagogy and education; Post-colonial studies; Race/ethnicity; Social and Cultural Foundations of Education; Social justice; sustainability; climate change)
Taylor, Alison
(Adult and continuing education, and community education; Educational administration, management and leadership; Educational policy; Higher education; Specialized studies in education; Education, Knowledge and Skills; Educational Context; Political Contexts; Social Contexts; Social Policies)
Vanwynsberghe, Robert
(Citizenship and democracy, Social justice, Sustainability; Sustainability; Environmental Education; Theory and Method)
Walker, Judith
(Adult and continuing education, and community education; Sociology of education; Educational policy; Adult education; Higher Education; policy studies; Health Professions Education)
Wang, Fei
(Educational administration, management and leadership; Educational policy; Specialized studies in education; Educational administration and leadership in K-12 setting; Leadership; the role of the school principals; social justice and diversity; comparative policy studies; Education and Training Management; Ideology and Social Policy; Social Contract and Social Justice; Offshore school and its leadership)
Webb, P. Taylor
(Education systems; Philosophy; Education governance, policy, and politics; Michel Foucault; Gilles Deleuze; Neoliberalism; Governmentality; Micropolitics; Biopolitics; Subjectivity; Artificial Intelligence)
Wright, Handel
(Educational policy; Specialized studies in education; (post)multiculturalism and multicultural education; Africana studies; Critical Race Theory; Cultural Studies; Educational Approaches; identity, citizenship and belonging; postcolonialism and decolonization; Transcultural Studies; Youth Studies; anti-racism)
Doctoral Citations
A
doctoral citation
summarizes the nature of the independent research, provides a high-level overview of the study, states the significance of the work and says who will benefit from the findings in clear, non-specialized language, so that members of a lay audience will understand it.
Citation contains
Items
10
25
50
100
Year
Citation
2024
Dr. Kostandy examined a networked movement of Egyptian public school teachers on Facebook. Her research reveals teachers' material, moral and legal conditions. She proposes a framework to understand the notion of justice in the Global South.
2024
Dr. Hardman listens to stories from Indigenizers applying Indigenous Storywork principles and her own Sto:lo teachings to understand deeply and interact with these stories. Storywork Listening shines light on six themes for Indigennizing. We learn that it is not easy but it is possible to Indigenize the Future: One Heart at a Time.
2023
Dr. Schrewe examined medical education policies to understand how physicians are formed to work for health equity in Canada. Based on these findings, he argued that the training system be re-designed to educate physicians as medical citizens who use their medical expertise to work for the equitable distribution of the public good of health care.
2023
Sanctioned by First Nation organizations in BC, Dr. Padam's pioneering work in online Indigenous educational technology programs led to in-person knowledge sharing with 90 of the 203 Indigenous communities throughout BC. His autobiographical research reflects upon past and current local BC Indigenous realities as exemplified nationally by the TRC.
2023
Dr. Jamal's study on ethnocultural pluralism and the International Baccalaureate's Primary Years Programme explored how an ethic of respect for ethnocultural diversity may be reflected in educational discourses. The study generated findings around issues of representation and teachers' pedagogical practices in different geopolitical contexts.
2023
Dr. Al-Muftah analyzes Qatar University to explore evolving trends in higher education internationalization, emphasizing shifts over time and space. This study urges policymakers to move beyond Euro-American perspectives, promoting localized concepts for internationalization.
2023
As the Global North increasingly recruits international post-secondary students as so-called ideal immigrants, the role of higher education is shifting. Dr. Brunner described this distinct form of immigration as edugration and, focusing on Canada, explored its complexities related to settler colonialism, surveillance, border imperialism, and justice.
2023
Dr. Pickthall explored how BC nursing school educators facilitate student learning in international field schools. Her research participants described an instructional process grounded in transformational learning theory. The study provides recommendations for BC nursing schools and faculty who are new to facilitating international field schools.
2023
Dr. Ignatovich's work challenges Western-centric views on lifelong learning in Russian and Soviet history. It explores education-related terms in Russian discourse and identifies five unique lifelong education models. The findings benefit policymakers, educators, and scholars studying non-Western modernity projects and education models.
2022
Dr. Glick examined how public mass gun violence (PMGV) is linked to histories of colonization. She illustrates how PMGV does not begin the moment the trigger is pulled and provides alternative social practices that could alleviate the violence and promote peace.
Pages
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
Teachers’ material, moral and legal conditions on World Teachers’ Day : a networked movement of Egyptian teachers on Facebook
Inter/nationalization of higher education : the case of academic mobility and knowledge generation at Qatar University
Coherence, consistency, contradiction : portraits of postsecondary educators seeking ecological integrity
Coherence, consistency, contradiction : portraits of postsecondary educators seeking ecological integrity : [supplementary material]
Indigenizing : one heart at a time
Educational technology implementation among BC first nation communities : a cross-cultural lens reflection
Medical citizenship and the social right to health care in Canada : a genealogy of medical education discourses
Ethnocultural pluralism and the International Baccalaureate Primary Years Programme
Promoting transformative learning in nursing international field schools
The construction of lifelong and lifewide education in Russia and the USSR, 1721 – 2021
The ethics of edugration : Canada’s higher education-migration nexus
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Arts in Educational Studies (MA)
Master of Education in Educational Studies (MEd)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Education in Educational Leadership and Policy (EdD)
Graduate Certificate in Adult Learning and Education (GCALE)
Graduate Certificate in Higher Education (GCHIED)
Master of Education in Adult Learning and Education (MEd)
Master of Education in Adult Learning and Global Change (MEd)
Master of Education in Curriculum and Leadership (MEd)
Master of Education in Educational Administration and Leadership (MEd)
Master of Education in Higher Education (MEd)
Master of Education in Society, Culture and Politics in Education (MEd)
Further Information
Specialization
Educational Studies
Educational Studies offers concentrations in Adult Learning and Education; Higher Education; Society, Culture and Politics in Education; and Educational Administration and Leadership.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/educational-studies
Program Website
https://edst.educ.ubc.ca/programs/phd-in-educational-studies/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Education
Academic Unit
Department of Educational Studies
Program Identifier
VGDPHD-G4
Classification
Education
Specialized studies in education
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 August 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 November 2024
International Applicant Deadline
15 November 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://twitter.com/edstubc/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Jonathan Easey
I mean what’s not to love about UBC? You get to live in Vancouver AND get a degree from one of the top universities in the world! I suppose I should also mention that UBC is one of the few institutions globally with a significant research focus on health education. I’m very fortunate to be part of...
Orkhon Gantogtokh
UBC’s strong expertise in academic leadership and visionary approach to doctoral education resonates with my career ambition of becoming a resourceful academic leader and a potent agent of change in doctoral education in Mongolia. Moreover, I was eager to be supervised by leading researchers in...
The city and the sea
Take a break from studying with opportunities at your fingertips. Whether you want to settle down in a café or take your research outdoors, we have a place for you.