Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-music-musicology

Doctor of Philosophy in Music, Emphasis Musicology (PhD)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Philosophy in Music, Emphasis Musicology (PhD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The M.A. and Ph.D. programs in musicology at the UBC School of Music offer students advanced training leading to professional careers in teaching and scholarly research. Graduate students enjoy a program that balances sound historical methods with critical interpretation, and forges interdisciplinary connections to music theory, ethnomusicology, and the humanities in general. The musicology faculty’s areas of expertise range from Medieval repertories through music of the 21st century, and represent a variety of scholarly approaches and critical methods.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Musicology at UBC is expansive. The four faculty members work on music from the Middle Ages to the present day. Their work also stretches across genres, among them, classical, Asian traditions, jazz, and popular music. They also engage a wide range of critical approaches, including sound studies, transnationalism, disability studies, religious cultures, gender studies, queer studies, and social justice. The Musicology Division inspires students to adopt a far-reaching, interdisciplinary vision in their work.
Program Structure
Prerequisites and remedial subjects. Registration in Music 512E (Directed Individual Studies).
Course work (curriculum, language requirements).
Formal approval of thesis topic. At this time the student should present for approval to the advisory committee evidence of progress such as a bibliography, an outline of methodology, a ground plan of themes to be explored and expanded, etc.
Comprehensive Examinations
Advancement to candidacy and completion of Music 512E.
Research and fieldwork (if applicable); thesis (Music 649); and Final Oral Examination.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Arts
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Dissertation
Academic Unit
School of Music
Specialization
Musicology
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
School
School of Music
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
Contact: Dr. Alex Fisher (Tel: 604-822-3524)
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 90
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
The entering student should have completed a Master's degree or its equivalent, including a thesis.
Course Requirements
The entering student should have completed a Master's degree or its equivalent, including a thesis. Exceptionally, however, a student who has completed 12 credits in the first year of an M.A. program may be offered admission directly into the Ph.D. (without completing the M.A. thesis) if the student has demonstrated sufficient mastery of graduate-level material and sufficient development as a scholarly writer. Students who wish to transfer from a master’s to a doctoral program must have completed one year of study in the master’s program with a minimum 80% average in 12 credits, of which at least nine credits must be at the 500 level or above and at least nine credits must be at 80% or above. The student must show clear evidence of research ability. In either case, the following entrance requirements apply: Historical Musicology The entering student should have demonstrated extensive experience with music history research and bibliographical techniques, as well as in German or French (see the explanatory notes to the M.A. in Historical Musicology).
Document Requirements
Take the General Graduate Record Examination (GRE) and request that your scoring report be forwarded to the School of Music using University of British Columbia's institution code 0965 along with department code 2302 (for Music History, Musicology, and Theory).
Note: UBC graduates within 3 years prior to application are exempt from this requirement.
Submit a paper, or papers, dealing with some aspect of musicology that is representative of your work to date.
Submit a Statement of Intent. Your Statement of Intent should outline areas of interest, current and future research plans, and why you feel that UBC would be a suitable place to pursue your degree program.
Contact: Dr. Alex Fisher (Tel: 604-822-3524)
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
10 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
21 December 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
21 December 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Music, Emphasis Musicology (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Highlights
Prof. Alex Fisher
“Thesaurus litaniarium: The Symbolism and Practice of Musical Litanies in Counter-Reformation
Germany.” Early Music History 34 (2015): 45-95.
Music, Piety, and Propaganda: The Soundscapes of Counter-Reformation Bavaria. New York:
Oxford University Press, 2014.
Music and Religious Identity in Counter-Reformation Augsburg, 1580-1630. Aldershot: Ashgate
Press, 2004.
“Thesaurus litaniarium: The Symbolism and Practice of Musical Litanies in Counter-Reformation
Germany.” Early Music History 34 (2015): 45-95.
“Per mia particolare devotione: Orlando di Lasso’s Lagrime di San Pietro and Jesuit Spirituality in
Counter-Reformation Munich. Journal of the Royal Musical Association 132 (2007): 167–220.
Prof. Hedy Law
Music, Pantomime, and Freedom in Enlightenment France. Woodbridge, Suffolk: Boydell Press,
2020.
“Music, Bacchus, and Freedom. In Oxford Handbook of Music and the Body, edited by Youn
Kim and Sander L. Gilman, 161–176. New York: Oxford University Press, 2019.
“Harpocrates at Work: How the God of Silence Protected Eighteenth-Century French
Iconoclasts.” In Oxford Handbook of Music and Censorship, edited by Patricia Hall, 153–174. New York: Oxford University Press, 2017.
“Composing Citoyennes through Sapho (1794). The Opera Quarterly 32, no.1 (Winter 2016): 5–
28.
Prof. Claudio Vellutini
“Donizetti, Vienna, Cosmopolitanism," Journal of the American Musicological Society 73 (2020),
1-52
"Interpreting the Italian Voice in London (and Elsewhere), in London Voices, 1820-1840: Vocal
Performers, Practices, Histories, ed. by Roger Parker and Susan Rutherford: 51-69. Chicago and London: The University of Chicago Press, 2019.
"Fanny Tacchinardi-Persiani, Carlo Balocchino, and Italian Opera Business in Vienna, Paris, and
London (1837-1845), Cambridge Opera Journal 30 (2019): 259-304.
"Opera and Monuments: Verdi's Ernani in Vienna and the Construction of Dynastic
Memory,Cambridge Opera Journal 29 (2017): 215-39.
David Metzer
“Repeated Borrowing: The Case of ‘Es ist genug.’” Journal of the American Musicological Society
71 (2018): 703-48.
The Ballad in American Popular Music: From Elvis to Beyoncé. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 2017.
Musical Modernism at the Turn of the Twenty-First Century. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 2009.
Quotation and Cultural Meaning in Twentieth-Century Music. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 2003.
Research Focus
Each of the four members of the Musicology Division has distinctive areas of expertise. Prof. Alex Fisher concentrates on aspects of religious culture and sound studies in music of the early modern period. He also leads the Early Music Ensemble. Prof. Hedy Law studies 18th-century French music, examining issues related to the Enlightenment, citizenship, and dance and bodily movement. Prof. Vellutini focuses on 19th-century Italian music, especially the transnationalism of Italian opera, opera singers and productions, and cosmopolitanism. Prof. David Metzer studies aspects of aesthetics, emotional expression, and social justice in classical and popular music of the 20th and 21st centuries. The Division has supervised theses dealing with topics across a broad range of periods, genres, and critical issues.
Research Facilities
From the state-of-the-art Chan Centre for Performing Arts, one of North America's premier musical venues, to the historic Old Auditorium and intimate Roy Barnett Recital Hall, to university-wide resources such as the Emerging Media Lab, UBC offers world-class facilities for musicology students.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
From September 2024 all full-time students in UBC-Vancouver PhD programs will be provided with a funding package of at least $24,000 for each of the first four years of their PhD. The funding package may consist of any combination of internal or external awards, teaching-related work, research assistantships, and graduate academic assistantships. Please note that many graduate programs provide funding packages that are substantially greater than $24,000 per year. Please check with your prospective graduate program for specific details of the funding provided to its PhD students.
Average Funding
Based on the criteria outlined below,
1
student within this program was included in this study because they received funding through UBC in the form of teaching, research, academic assistantships or internal or external awards averaging
$43,114
.
1 student received Teaching Assistantships valued at $6,744.
1 student received internal awards valued at $1,370.
1 student received external awards valued at $35,000.
Study Period: Sep 2021 to Aug 2022 - average funding for full-time PhD students enrolled in three terms per academic year in this program across years 1-4, the period covered by
UBC's Minimum Funding Guarantee
. Averages might mask variability in sources and amounts of funding received by individual students. Beyond year 4, funding packages become even more individualized.
Review methodology
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Outcomes
8 students graduated between 2007 and 2012. Of these, career information was obtained for 8 alumni (based on research conducted between Feb-May 2016):
RI (Research-Intensive) Faculty: typically tenure-track faculty positions (equivalent of the North American Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor positions) in PhD-granting institutions
TI (Teaching-Intensive) Faculty: typically full-time faculty positions in colleges or in institutions not granting PhDs, and teaching faculty at PhD-granting institutions
Term Faculty: faculty in term appointments (e.g. sessional lecturers, visiting assistant professors, etc.)
Sample Employers in Higher Education
Vanier College
University of Georgia
University of Calgary
Elon University
Cégep Garneau
Queen's University
University of Alberta
Sample Employers Outside Higher Education
Tsuut'ina Nation
Sample Job Titles Outside Higher Education
Teacher
PhD Career Outcome Survey
You may view the full report on career outcomes of UBC PhD graduates on
outcomes.grad.ubc.ca
.
Disclaimer
The data show all specializations in Music combined. These data represent historical employment information and do not guarantee future employment prospects for graduates of this program. They are for informational purposes only. Data were collected through either alumni surveys or internet research.
Career Options
Graduates of UBC’s graduate programs in musicology have obtained professional positions at the University of Toronto, University of Victoria, University of Cincinnati, Indiana University, the City University of New York, the City University of London, and elsewhere.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Doctor of Philosophy in Music, Emphasis Musicology (PhD). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
4
6
3
4
8
Offers
0
0
0
0
2
New Registrations
0
0
0
0
1
Total Enrolment
2
2
3
3
3
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Music, Emphasis Musicology (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
Doctoral Citations
A
doctoral citation
summarizes the nature of the independent research, provides a high-level overview of the study, states the significance of the work and says who will benefit from the findings in clear, non-specialized language, so that members of a lay audience will understand it.
Citation contains
Items
10
25
50
100
Year
Citation
2023
Dr. Gallagher examined the visual and musical features of pastoral landscapes (forests and fields) and anti-pastoral areas (ruins and caves) in the video games Final Fantasy X, XII, XIII, and XV. Her research shows that music significantly impacts players' perceptions of these areas, making them feel more relaxed and apprehensive, respectively.
2018
Dr. Boyle examined the role of repetition in a selection of postmodern compositions, proposing new theoretical principles for understanding the perception of musical segments. Her work expands on previous discussions of musical form by explaining not only the emergence of closed segments, but also of more open forms and processes.
2018
Dr. Mahlberg explored the biography and works of the Finnish composer Leevi Madetoja who lived from 1887-1947. This study, the first of its kind in English, considers Madetoja in light of issues of national identity and politics, and provides an overview of his place and musical contributions in the context of European musical culture.
Sample Thesis Submissions
Pastoral and anti-pastoral music and landscapes in Final Fantasy X, XII, XIII, and XV
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Musicology (MA)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Musical Arts in Composition (DMA)
Doctor of Musical Arts in Orchestral Instrument (DMA)
Doctor of Musical Arts in Piano (DMA)
Doctor of Musical Arts in Voice (DMA)
Doctor of Philosophy in Music, Emphasis Ethnomusicology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Music, Emphasis Theory (PhD)
Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Ethnomusicology (MA)
Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Theory (MA)
Master of Music in Composition (MMUS)
Master of Music in Conducting (Emphasis Choral Conducting) (MMUS)
Master of Music in Conducting (Emphasis Orchestral Conducting) (MMUS)
Master of Music in Conducting (Emphasis Wind Conducting) (MMUS)
Master of Music in Guitar (MMUS)
Master of Music in Harpsichord (MMUS)
Master of Music in Historical Performance Practice (MMUS)
Master of Music in Opera (MMUS)
Master of Music in Orchestral Instrument (MMUS)
Master of Music in Organ (MMUS)
Master of Music in Piano (MMUS)
Master of Music in Voice (MMUS)
Further Information
Specialization
Musicology
Musicology involves the scholarly study of music in its historical and cultural contexts. At the UBC School of Music, faculty and students in the Musicology division explore a wide range of repertory and performance practices ranging from the Middle Ages to the present day.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/music
Program Website
https://music.ubc.ca/graduate/phd-music/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Arts
Academic Unit
School of Music
Program Identifier
VGDPHD-MUER6
Classification
Musicology and ethnomusicology
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
10 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
International Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/UBC.School.of.Music/
https://www.instagram.com/ubc_music/
https://twitter.com/ubc_music/
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCrxOBzoHpZ9WyC783a0Wd-Q/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Considering UBC for your graduate studies?
Here, you can choose from more than 300 graduate degree program options and 2000+ research supervisors. You can even design your own program.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC