Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-gender-race-sexuality-social-justice

Doctor of Philosophy in Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice (PhD)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Philosophy in Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice (PhD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The PhD in Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice is an interdisciplinary program which allows students to explore their interests in diverse areas while employing feminist, intersectional, and decolonizing methodologies. It is intended to be flexible and to accommodate the needs of individual students.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
I love how GRSJ allows students to sit at the table of various social justice issues and learn from renowned scholars world-wide.
Adeerya Johnson
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Arts
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Dissertation
Academic Unit
Institute for Gender, Race, Sex and Social Justice
Specialization
Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 90
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
20 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
01 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
08 December 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
01 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
08 December 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Criminal Record Check
Students may elect to take a practicum that will require a
criminal record check
.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
From September 2024 all full-time students in UBC-Vancouver PhD programs will be provided with a funding package of at least $24,000 for each of the first four years of their PhD. The funding package may consist of any combination of internal or external awards, teaching-related work, research assistantships, and graduate academic assistantships. Please note that many graduate programs provide funding packages that are substantially greater than $24,000 per year. Please check with your prospective graduate program for specific details of the funding provided to its PhD students.
Average Funding
Based on the criteria outlined below,
13
students within this program were included in this study because they received funding through UBC in the form of teaching, research, academic assistantships or internal or external awards averaging
$30,531
.
5 students received Teaching Assistantships. Average TA funding based on 5 students was $13,835.
3 students received Research Assistantships. Average RA funding based on 3 students was $8,236.
6 students received Academic Assistantships. Average AA funding based on 6 students was $2,826.
13 students received internal awards. Average internal award funding based on 13 students was $20,210.
1 student received external awards valued at $23,333.
Study Period: Sep 2022 to Aug 2023 - average funding for full-time PhD students enrolled in three terms per academic year in this program across years 1-4, the period covered by
UBC's Minimum Funding Guarantee
. Averages might mask variability in sources and amounts of funding received by individual students. Beyond year 4, funding packages become even more individualized.
Review methodology
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Outcomes
15 students graduated between 2005 and 2013. Of these, career information was obtained for 11 alumni (based on research conducted between Feb-May 2016):
RI (Research-Intensive) Faculty: typically tenure-track faculty positions (equivalent of the North American Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor positions) in PhD-granting institutions
TI (Teaching-Intensive) Faculty: typically full-time faculty positions in colleges or in institutions not granting PhDs, and teaching faculty at PhD-granting institutions
Term Faculty: faculty in term appointments (e.g. sessional lecturers, visiting assistant professors, etc.)
Sample Employers in Higher Education
University of British Columbia (2)
University of Alberta
Wilfrid Laurier University
Douglas College
Mahidol University
University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee
Sample Employers Outside Higher Education
Government of Canada
BC Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS
Sample Job Titles Outside Higher Education
Academic Editor, Writer
Head
Research Associate
Soeech-Language Pathologist
PhD Career Outcome Survey
You may view the full report on career outcomes of UBC PhD graduates on
outcomes.grad.ubc.ca
.
Disclaimer
This program underwent a name or structural change in the study time frame, and all alumni from the previous program were included in these summaries. These data represent historical employment information and do not guarantee future employment prospects for graduates of this program. They are for informational purposes only. Data were collected through either alumni surveys or internet research.
Alumni on Success
Luna Ferguson
Job Title
Actor, Writer, Producer
Employer
Turbid Lake Pictures & Self-Employed
Lauren Hunter
Job Title
Head, IN.spire Innovation Hub, Natural Resources Canada
Employer
Government of Canada
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Doctor of Philosophy in Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice (PhD). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
This program went through a name change in previous years that may have included curriculum changes. It was previously known as: Doctor of Philosophy in Women's Studies and Gender Studies until 2013, Doctor of Philosophy in Women's Studies and Gender Relations until 2011. Historical data on this page may include data collected under the previous name(s) of the program.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
39
51
82
56
52
Offers
4
2
3
4
5
New Registrations
3
2
3
3
4
Total Enrolment
28
27
27
23
20
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
42%
based on 12 students admitted between 2011 - 2014. Based on 5 graduating students from the 2011 - 2014 admissions cohort the minimum time to completion is 5.47 years and the maximum time is 10.25 years with an average of
7.11 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Angeles, Leonora
(Gender analysis, gender mainstreaming and other gender planning related tools, including feminist critiques and perspectives on the intergration of  gender and other social axes of difference and diversity in community planning and international development work)
Catungal, John Paul
(queer of colour geographies, critical race and ethnic studies, diaspora and transnationalism, critical pedagogy, the scholarship of teaching and learning, and the lived geographies of sexual and racial minorities in educational spaces)
Chaudhry, Ayesha
(Islam, Muslims, religion, gender, human rights, family and children, discrimination, social justice )
Ferreira da Silva, Denise
(ethical questions of the global present and target the metaphysical and ontoepistemological dimensions of modern thought; Critical Racial and Ethnic Studies, Feminist Theory, Critical Legal Theory, Political Theory, Moral Philosophy, Postcolonial Studies, and Latin American & Caribbean Studies)
Harris, Leila
(Critical identity, ethnic and race studies; Gender, sexuality and education; Human rights, justice, and ethical issues; Africa; Development Policies; Drinking Water; Environmental justice; equity and social justice; Ethics and Fundamental Issues of Law and Justice; Fresh Water; Gender Relationship; gender and social difference; Ghana; International development; participatory resource management; Resources Management; Social Contract and Social Justice; Social and Cultural Factors of Environmental Protection; South Africa; Turkey and Middle East; Water; water governance; water politics)
Mahtani, Minelle
(critical mixed race theory; cultural forgetting; Social justice)
Patterson, Christopher
(Transpacific discourses of literature, games, and films)
Pierre, Jemima
(relationship of political economy to race; migration, transnationalism, and diaspora; ethics and politics of western knowledge production and disciplinary formation)
Puar, Jasbir
Riano-Alcala, Pilar
(Lived experience of violence, Historical Memory and the politics of commemoration and witnessing, Forced migration (internal displacement and refuge), Critical and participatory methodologies, Community organizing, everyday resistance and social repair, Public art)
Sia, Rosanne
(Sociology; Cold War cultural history; Performance studies; critical race studies; queer studies)
Doctoral Citations
A
doctoral citation
summarizes the nature of the independent research, provides a high-level overview of the study, states the significance of the work and says who will benefit from the findings in clear, non-specialized language, so that members of a lay audience will understand it.
Citation contains
Items
10
25
50
100
Year
Citation
2024
Dr. Beljaars studied the evolution of salsa in the Netherlands, exposing Antillean influences on Dutch culture. She also examined interactions in the Afro-Latin dance scene, illuminating the complexities of identity and belonging in Dutch postcolonial society and emphasizing the criticality of race in understanding Dutch cultural citizenship.
2023
Dr. Desideri reflects on a set of artistic practices which, rather than creating objects, create the conditions for collaborative thinking and making, that is called study. Her Studio Practice proposes a novel approach to artmaking as study and to study as artmaking.
2023
Dr. Pauker's cross-disciplinary work sketches intertwining genealogies of philosophy and journalism. Advocating philosophical journalism as a mode of critical questioning in the present, Pauker disrupts normative configurations of truth and truth-telling in journalism, philosophy, and knowledge production in the western tradition, more broadly.
2022
Dr. St. Rose Yeo studied the possibilities generated by creative practices to subvert temporal dominance as formulated in Western modernity. Her work contributes to ongoing discourses that suggest creative practices play a critical role in transforming systems of harm in our global present.
2022
Dr. Lowik investigated the tactics that trans people undertake when accessing reproductive health care spaces that are not equipped to serve their needs. They found that the onus to remedy systematic erasure often falls on trans people and identified the structural forces that prevent this erasure from being addressed systematically.
2022
From 2015 to 2021, Dr. Bhandal led a research project to study social justice perspectives in Canadian nursing and medical education. Specifically, she focused on two areas of theory and practice from social justice studies, decolonization and intersectionality. The findings have been published in various academic and popular venues.
2021
Dr. Koostachin examines how positionality shapes the creative process of Indigenous documentarians, revealing the impacts on core concepts, themes, and forms within their practice of documentary. Her research methodology is rooted in a paradigm that privileges InNiNeWak (Cree) ways of being.
2019
Dr. Elradi investigated the relationship between women's organizations, nationalism and violence in Sudan and discovered that violence is perceived differently by local, national and international women's organizations. Findings suggest that mitigating racialized gendered violence in Sudan and the Nuba Mountains will require national and transnational alliances.
2018
Dr. Nayebzadah studied the representation of Afghan-Canadian Muslim diaspora in postcolonial fiction through the practice of a/r/tography. Her work raises questions about biases, presuppositions, and world-views on Muslims. This research informs discussion around the role of authors as constructing and consolidating notions of "self" and "other".
2018
Dr. Stewart worked with youth born of forced relations in the rebel group, the Lord's Resistance Army in Uganda. She identified their experiences of discrimination as a national and international problem of accountability and found creative ways they negotiate belonging. Her study will inform policy for those born of sexual violence in other wars.
Pages
1
2
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
Philosophy now! : genealogies of philosophical journalism & the question of the present
Gendered and reproductive becomings : trans people, reproductive experiences and the B.C. health care system
Embodied encounters : Afro-Latin dance and Dutch cultural identity
Studio practice : experiments in objectless and objectiveless artmaking
Non-binary trans subjects : exiting the attachment to the transgender metanarrative of man/woman
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Arts in Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice (MA)
Further Information
Specialization
Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice
Faculty expertise in Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice include gender and development, critical studies in sexuality, decolonizing and post-colonial methodologies, race, gender and cultural studies (including Asia), critical race theory, gender and Canadian history and literature (in English and French), transgender studies, gender issues in health, and feminist legal studies.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/gender-race-sexuality-and-social-justice
Program Website
https://grsj.arts.ubc.ca/graduate/phd-program/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Arts
Academic Unit
Institute for Gender, Race, Sex and Social Justice
Program Identifier
VGDPHD-LC
Classification
Gender psychology
Sexual identy, sexual attraction and sexual behaviour
Gender, sexuality and education
Race and ethnic relations
Anthropology of sex and gender
Gender studies
Philosophy of sexuality
Human rights, justice, and ethical issues
Critical identity, ethnic and race studies
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
20 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
International Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/SocialJusticeInstituteUBC/
https://twitter.com/grsjinstitute/
https://www.youtube.com/c/SocialJusticeInstituteUBC/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Allison Campbell
Vancouver is my home, and I have been involved in health education at UBC for over a decade. I am grateful to now have the opportunity to bring together my experience in midwifery practice and education with my long-held interests in prison- and reproductive justice, and join a community of...
V. Pauahi Souza
My interest to study at UBC was and is due to the Social Justice Institute and the faculty within the program. I specifically wanted a degree geared towards Social Justice. In 2018, at the time I was thinking of PhD studies, UBC was the only school in North America with a program that offered a PhD...
Fabiola Bazo
I decided to study at UBC because it provides the exact combination of knowledge and expertise that I need for my dissertation research: from gender, to music, to Latin American studies. And I am lucky enough to live in this beautiful campus located on the traditional, ancestral, and unceded...
Romina Tantalean-Castaneda
I came to UBC as a master's student and am now a doctoral student because I consider the Social Justice Institute's (Gender, Race, Sexuality, and Social Justice) interdisciplinary doctoral program the most suitable environment for re-imagining and advancing my graduate goals. It provides specific...
1 of 2
next ›
Why should you choose UBC?
From academic excellence and modern facilities to our diverse degree program listings to being named one of the “most innovative universities” by Reuters in 2019, UBC has a lot to offer.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC