Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-nursing

Doctor of Philosophy in Nursing (PhD)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Philosophy in Nursing (PhD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Ph.D. program prepares graduates who will provide leadership in the generation, integration, and implementation of knowledge aimed at improving health and health care. Our graduates have expanded spheres of influence in academic institutions, practice settings, and policy arenas. Students join a community of scholars where supervisors are committed to supporting educational programs that meet students’ interests and growth in scholarly engagement with the nursing discipline. All doctoral students must successfully complete a comprehensive examination, an oral candidacy examine, and a research dissertation meeting the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies requirements. Program applicants are admitted based on outstanding achievement in their master's program; evidence of leadership potential for research and scholarship; self-direction; and goals that fit with program resources. Canadian students must hold practicing nurse registration in BC or another province. International students must meet general eligibility criteria for nurse registration in BC. Transfer from the M.S.N. to the Ph.D. program occurs based on Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies regulations.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
This exciting program prepares researchers and leaders to advance research knowledge, and the dissemination and application of findings to nursing and health care. Students join research supervisors in a community of scholars (other students and faculty members) to develop a program that takes them to new levels of knowledge and skill with career relevant competencies. In addition to core courses, students are encouraged to gain advanced expertise in research methods and other skills through rich course offerings, seminars, colloquia, conferences and independent studies available at UBC. Interdisciplinary collaboration is promoted.
The UBC School of Nursing is a world-renowned centre for research and training. Its reputation in producing and training highly successful nurse scholars with a strong foundation of course work ranks it as one of the top universities worldwide.
Manpreet Thandi
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Applied Science
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Dissertation
Academic Unit
School of Nursing
Specialization
Nursing
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
School
School of Nursing
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.5
Writing
7.0
Speaking
7.0
Listening
7.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is required by some applicants. Please check the program website.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 August 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 November 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
15 December 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 November 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
15 December 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Nursing (PhD)
All applicants need firm commitment from a supervisor prior to applying.
Applicants are expected to identify a faculty member who has agreed to serve as supervisor before the application will be assessed. All applicants are strongly encouraged to speak with the Graduate Programs Admission Officer and/or PhD program coordinator prior to completing the application form, and to seek assistance (as necessary) in identifying a potential supervisor. Applicants should also browse faculty profiles to identify faculty they are interested in working with.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
All full-time students in UBC-Vancouver PhD programs will be provided with a funding package of at least $24,000 for each of the first four years of their PhD from September 2024. The funding package may consist of any combination of internal or external awards, teaching-related work, research assistantships, and graduate academic assistantships. Please note that many graduate programs provide funding packages that are substantially greater than $24,000 per year. Please check with your prospective graduate program for specific details of the funding provided to its PhD students.
Average Funding
Based on the criteria outlined below,
28
students within this program were included in this study because they received funding through UBC in the form of teaching, research, academic assistantships or internal or external awards averaging
$31,343
.
10 students received Teaching Assistantships. Average TA funding based on 10 students was $11,004.
2 students received Research Assistantships. Average RA funding based on 2 students was $25,222.
11 students received Academic Assistantships. Average AA funding based on 11 students was $6,411.
28 students received internal awards. Average internal award funding based on 28 students was $16,129.
6 students received external awards. Average external award funding based on 6 students was $32,500.
Study Period: Sep 2022 to Aug 2023 - average funding for full-time PhD students enrolled in three terms per academic year in this program across years 1-4, the period covered by
UBC's Minimum Funding Guarantee
. Averages might mask variability in sources and amounts of funding received by individual students. Beyond year 4, funding packages become even more individualized.
Review methodology
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Outcomes
34 students graduated between 2005 and 2013: 1 is in a non-salaried situation; for 0 we have no data (based on research conducted between Feb-May 2016). For the remaining 33 graduates:
RI (Research-Intensive) Faculty: typically tenure-track faculty positions (equivalent of the North American Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor positions) in PhD-granting institutions
TI (Teaching-Intensive) Faculty: typically full-time faculty positions in colleges or in institutions not granting PhDs, and teaching faculty at PhD-granting institutions
Term Faculty: faculty in term appointments (e.g. sessional lecturers, visiting assistant professors, etc.)
Sample Employers in Higher Education
University of British Columbia (10)
University of Manitoba (4)
Saskatchewan Polytechnic
University of Calgary
Western University (Ontario)
University of Calgary in Qatar
Jordan Univeristy of Science and Technology
Brandon University
University of Alberta
McGill University
Sample Employers Outside Higher Education
Fraser Health (2)
St. Paul's Hospital
Provincial Health Services Authority
Vancouver Coastal Health
Providence Health Care
Seabird Island Band
First Nations Health Authority
Vancouver Island Health Authority
Sample Job Titles Outside Higher Education
Nurse Practitioner (2)
Clinician Scientist, Clinical Nurse Specialist
Epidemiologist
Chief Nursing Officer
Research Liaison Officer
Director
Clinical Nurse Specialistist
Health Policy and Quality Officer
PhD Career Outcome Survey
You may view the full report on career outcomes of UBC PhD graduates on
outcomes.grad.ubc.ca
.
Disclaimer
These data represent historical employment information and do not guarantee future employment prospects for graduates of this program. They are for informational purposes only. Data were collected through either alumni surveys or internet research.
Career Options
Graduates of our PhD Program have advanced competencies in nursing research and scholarship, research team participation and management, interdisciplinary collaboration, teaching, entrepreneurship, and translating results to action. They are innovative in their approaches to finding solutions to problems in nursing and healthcare delivery. Our graduates follow a long tradition of being recognized leaders in the field of nursing, who are working to advance the profession for future generations. Graduates take leadership roles within the health authorities or business and faculty positions at university and colleges worldwide.
Alumni on Success
Heather McDonald
Job Title
Health Director
Employer
Seabird Island Band
Sandra  Lauck
Job Title
Clinician Scientist
Employer
St. Paul's Hospital
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Doctor of Philosophy in Nursing (PhD). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
27
14
19
23
20
Offers
14
8
10
10
10
New Registrations
10
8
7
9
7
Total Enrolment
54
45
44
42
38
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
75%
based on 24 students admitted between 2011 - 2014. Based on 16 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 4.1 years and the maximum time is 9.26 years with an average of
6.57 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Upcoming Doctoral Exams
Monday, 9 December 2024 - 9:00am - Room 200
Manpreet Thandi
Using Primary Care Electronic Medical Record Data in British Columbia, Canada to Develop an Electronic Frailty Index
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Nursing (PhD)
All applicants need firm commitment from a supervisor prior to applying.
Applicants are expected to identify a faculty member who has agreed to serve as supervisor before the application will be assessed. All applicants are strongly encouraged to speak with the Graduate Programs Admission Officer and/or PhD program coordinator prior to completing the application form, and to seek assistance (as necessary) in identifying a potential supervisor. Applicants should also browse faculty profiles to identify faculty they are interested in working with.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Abdulai, Fatawu
(Clinical nursing, primary (preventive care); Health informatics; human-computer interaction; Health technology design; Informatics/Digital health; Sexual health equity)
Auxier, Jenny
Baumbusch, Jennifer
(long-term residential care, family caregiving, Intellectual Disability, nursing care of older adults )
Boschma, Geertje
(History of nursing and health care, with special emphasis on mental health and mental health nursing)
Brown, Helen Jean
(Maternal-infant and women)
Browne, Annette
(Health inequalities, indigenous peoples, women's health, cultural safety, primary health care interventions to improve health outcomes, marginalized populations, health policy)
Bungay, Vicky
(sexuality, sex work, harm reduction, drug use, intersectionality, ethnography, communication technologies, community based research, Health inequities affecting men and women working in the commercial sex industry and people who are street-involved, leadership, public health nursing, mental health, sexual health, HIV, and harm reduction programming)
Clark, Drew
(Health sciences; healthcare ethics; Health Equity; healthcare decision making; transgender health)
Currie, Leanne
(Nursing; Health Care Technologies; Health information systems; Biomedical and Health Informatics)
Dahinten, Susan
(Social determinants and processes of child development,  identification, intervention and the prevention of developmental problems)
Dev, Rubee
(Pediatrics and reproductive medicine, n.e.c.; Nursing; women's health; maternal & child health; sexual & reproductive health; chronic disease prevention & management; health system & services)
Garrett, Bernard Mark
(Nursing; Health Care Technologies; Ethics and Health; Deception in Healthcare; Media Influence on Behavior; Virtual Reality (VR); Augmented reality; Evidence-based practice; Alternative Medicine; CAM; Healthcare Regulation)
Haase, Kristen
(Nursing, n.e.c.; oncology; Older Adults; Geriatric oncology; Health systems research; Mixed Methods Research; Qualitative research; Self-management; E-health)
Havaei, Farinaz
(Nursing; factors that influence nurses’ ability to provide effective patient care; health human resource optimization)
Hirani, Saima
(Psychosocial, sociocultural and behavioral determinants of health; Mental health nursing; Social sciences; mental health; Mental health promotion; psychosocial interventions; Vulnerable Groups; social support; resilience)
Howard, Fuchsia
(health service needs of vulnerable, high-risk survivors of acute life-threatening illness, specifically, cancer survivors and survivors of critical illnesses; hereditary cancer prevention and risk management and psychosocial and ethnocultural factors that shape health and illness experiences)
Hung, Lillian
(Geriatric nursing; Medical and biomedical engineering; Impact of technology and environment on the care experiences of persons with dementia; dementia education; quality improvement; Participatory action research)
Jenkins, Emily
(optimizing mental health and substance use outcomes; collaborative mental health promotion strategies; health services and policy development and redesign; knowledge translation approaches; healthy public policy development)
Lauck, Sandra
(Geriatrics and gerontology; Nursing; Care; health service delivery to support the implementation of innovative approaches to cardiac disease; minimally invasive treatment of valvular heart disease)
Ojukwu, Emmanuela
(Health sciences; Social sciences; Humanities and the arts; Racial and gender health disparities and inequities; African, Carribbean and Black Immigrant Health; Women, Maternal-Infant, Youth Health; Psycho-social and Socio-ecologic determinants of health; Mental health, HIV/AIDS and other STIs; intersectionality)
Oliffe, John
(Care; Sociology and related studies; Men's Health Promotion; Male Depression and Suicide; Psychosocial Prostate Cancer Care; Smoking Cessation)
Phinney, Alison
(Capacities of older people for successfully coping with the functional consequences of aging and disease)
Ramsay, Scott
(impact of neurological disorders on children and youth, their families, and the health care system; health inequities; health and wellbeing of children and youth)
Ranger, Manon
(Neurodevelopment; Clinical nursing, secondary (acute care); neurodevelopment; Early-adversity; Biomarkers of early stress exposure; Brain development; pain; Prematurity)
Russolillo, Angela
(Health services research; health services use among individuals with psychiatric and substance use disorders)
Pages
1
2
next ›
last »
Doctoral Citations
A
doctoral citation
summarizes the nature of the independent research, provides a high-level overview of the study, states the significance of the work and says who will benefit from the findings in clear, non-specialized language, so that members of a lay audience will understand it.
Citation contains
Items
10
25
50
100
Year
Citation
2023
Dr. Moynihan tested the theoretical framework of a nursing intervention designed to reconnect sexually exploited runaway adolescents to supportive family and school relationships. Findings suggest the intervention works as theorized. Promoting supportive relationships may improve health problems, such as emotional distress and substance misuse.
2023
Dr. Devane examined youth peer support services in a mental health service context. Using a research community partnership model, she identified key opportunities to strengthen and scale youth peer support services across the provincial organization, Foundry. Her research positions Foundry as a strong leader for further innovation in this field.
2023
Dr. Ramsay explored concussions among children and youth in British Columbia. He found that most children and youth with a concussion do not receive follow-up and those with a delayed follow-up visit were more likely to experience poor health. This research provides new evidence to support the importance of timely follow-up after a concussion.
2023
Dr. Ojerinde investigated the cervical screening experiences of Black African immigrant women in BC. She found that the participants' social identities interact with different contexts of Canadian society and the healthcare system to create barriers to cervical screening uptake. Her findings may have implications for practice.
2022
Dr. Straus' research aimed to understand living well through exploring the experiences of young people who required a ventilator long-term. Her work incorporated stories and photographs and challenges assumptions about what someone with a ventilator can do. Her work also identifies ways healthcare providers can reimagine living well in practice.
2022
Dr. Slemon examined how nurses who work in emergency departments promote equity and justice through everyday patient care. Her findings illustrated that despite individual nurses' efforts, promoting equity was not meaningfully supported in this setting. This study can contribute to future interventions to embed equity in health care systems.
2022
Dr. Abdulai examined how sexual health-related stigma can be addressed in the context of digital health technologies.Using a trauma-informed care framework, he developed a set of destigmatizing design guidelines.His work provided a reference guide on how sexual health-related technologies can be designed to be trauma-informed and less stigmatizing.
2022
Dr. Recsky studied the unintended consequences of health information technologies in primary and community care. In partnership with a local health organization, she co-created a process to address technology-related safety concerns. This research advances our understanding of patient safety in the context of technology-supported healthcare.
2021
Dr. Haney studied Canadian abortion nursing from 1960-1999. Her analysis of previously untold stories of Registered Nurses revealed their key contributions to developing and providing safe abortion services amid significant legal, clinical and cultural challenges. Her study adds new insight into abortion, women's health, and nursing history.
2021
Dr. Ronquillo examined how Implementation Leadership Characteristics influenced nurses' use of mobile health technologies in clinical practice, and found that stronger implementation leadership among first-level leaders had a larger impact on younger nurses and nurses with diploma and bachelors degrees compared to nurses with graduate degrees.
Pages
1
2
3
4
5
6
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
Nurse practitioners' perceptions of quality of virtual care : a mixed methods study
A computerised ontology to represent complex nursing knowledge for indicators of localised wound infection in chronic wounds
Out on the street : a community-based study with homeless 2S/LGBTQ+ youth who use drugs
Tracing modern humanitarianism in the Near East and South Caucasus of 1920
Concussion among children and youth in British Columbia : follow-up visits and health outcomes
A case study exploration of harm reduction implementation and related barriers and facilitators in an emergency department in British Columbia, Canada
Intersecting social statuses, health inequities, and macro-social influences on HIV risk behaviour among adolescents in Sub-Saharan Africa : a structural determinants exploration
Characterization and management of technology-mediated adverse events in primary and community care
Adaptation and validation of the U.S. hospital survey on patient safety culture 2.0™(SOPS®) : the Saudi version
Development and application of destigmatising design principles in sexual health-related technologies
Learning from experiences of peer support at an integrated youth service organization : a qualitative study
Testing the theoretical framework of the Runaway Intervention Program
Cervical cancer screening uptake and experiences of Black African immigrant women in the context of a comprehensive provincial screening program in B.C. Canada
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Science in Nursing (MSN)
Same Academic Unit
Graduate Certificate in Clinical Informatics (GCCI)
Master of Health Leadership and Policy in Clinical Education (MHLP)
Master of Health Leadership and Policy in Seniors Care (MHLP)
Master of Nursing - Nurse Practitioner (MN)
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Doctor of Philosophy in Nursing (PhD)
Further Information
Specialization
Nursing
The program focuses on improving health care delivery, advancing and applying nursing knowledge, and evolving health policy.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/nursing
Program Website
https://nursing.ubc.ca/graduate/doctor-of-philosophy-in-nursing-phd
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Applied Science
Academic Unit
School of Nursing
Program Identifier
VGDPHD-SK
Classification
Nursing
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 August 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 November 2024
International Applicant Deadline
15 November 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubcnursing/
https://www.linkedin.com/company/ubc-school-of-nursing/
https://twitter.com/ubcnursing/
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCTajhpu5yW2p4PjTqbcFbgg/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Michelle Gagnon
I chose UBC because of its excellence in high quality education and research. From my first interactions with the School of Nursing staff and faculty, I felt a sincere sense of collegiality and welcomeness. The support from my supervisor, Dr. Vicky Bungay, has been incredible and monumental to my...
Bonnie Leung
The UBC School of Nursing is Canada's top-ranked nursing program and is internationally renowned for their contributions to nursing and health research, nursing philosophy and health system leadership.
Olivia Maracle
I have a BA in Psychology and Sociology from the U of A, but that was many years ago. As I no longer live in Alberta, the communities I know now are situated in Vancouver, so it made sense to complete my BSN and MSN at UBC. This is the University I personally feel most comfortable at. I have felt...
Sammy Iammarino
I chose UBC because of its reputation for high quality education and proximity to harm reduction environments that allow me to stay connected to my nursing practice. Studying at UBC has made it possible for me to be a PhD student, nursing leader in public health, and mama to two little kids. I am...
1 of 3
next ›
Experience the colours of Vancouver
Great academic programs, great location: the distinct seasons and mild climate are among the reasons why graduate students choose to study here -- from the autumn leaves to cherry blossoms, witness the many colours Vancouver has to offer.