Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-school-applied-child-psychology

Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Philosophy in School and Applied Child Psychology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in School and Applied Child Psychology (PhD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The doctoral program in school and applied child psychology is designed to prepare psychologists who can serve as practitioners and supervisors in the field, trainers of school psychologists, researchers, and leaders in school psychology. The typical doctoral program is 39 credits, beyond completion of the UBC School Psychology MA or equivalent program. The PhD Program of Graduate Study (PGS) for each student is developed to reflect program requirements and individual student career goals, as well as professional and academic background and preparation.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Top Five Reasons to join the School and Applied Child Psychology program at UBC:
Productive faculty research. Our program has award-winning scholars, whose wide range of research interests influence policy and practice. Active research grants allow many opportunities for student involvement, employment, and independent research. And UBC is currently ranked one of the top 35 universities in the world!
Extensive practical experiences. From day one, you’ll be applying what you learn in our courses right in the K–12 classroom. At the masters level you will participate in two full-year practicum placements followed by a one-year paid internship. At the doctoral level you will have your pick of specialty placements in the field of education and mental health, a practicum focused on developing skills in supervision, and a full-year paid internship.
Outstanding career prospects. School Psychology is consistently listed as a “best career” by US News and World Report. There are many job openings across Canada and worldwide, with excellent salaries and benefits. School Psychology practitioners and professors are both currently in very high demand.
Supportive environment. We admit cohorts of students who progress through the program together. Students have close contact with program faculty members throughout their graduate training. You will also get support from your peers, the school psychology graduate student assistant, and an advanced student mentor provided to you upon admission. There are abundant social gatherings and yearly program retreats.
Location. Vancouver is a diverse cosmopolitan city with a vibrant downtown, mountains and beaches, unmatched outdoor opportunities and a mild climate. It is regularly ranked in the top five cities to live in the world.
I decided to study at UBC as it is a world-renowned university that recruits many highly accomplished and diverse professors and students.
Aisha Ghani
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Education
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Dissertation
Academic Unit
Department of Educational & Counselling Psychology, and Special Education
Specialization
School and Applied Child Psychology
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
22
Speaking
25
Listening
25
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
Program Prerequisites In addition to the minimum admission requirements set by the Faculty of Graduate Studies, students admitted to the Ph.D. degree program normally possess a M.A. in School and Applied Child Psychology equivalent to the requirements of the UBC M.A. program (see coursework listed below), and graduate or senior undergraduate preparation in Human Development (3 credits), History and Systems of Psychology (3 credits), and Biological Bases of Behaviour (6 credits), Basic Interviewing Skills (3 credits). Prerequisites not met prior to entry may be included in the doctoral program of study.
Course Requirements
Prerequisites Coursework EPSE 506 (3) Applied Psychopathology Across the Lifespan EPSE 528 (3) Basic Principles of Measurement EPSE 535 (3) Social and Emotional Assessment EPSE 550 (3) Professional, Ethical, and Legal Issues In School Psychology EPSE 553 (3) Theories of Cognitive and Affective Abilities EPSE 556 (3) Cognitive and Academic Assessment Practicum EPSE 552 (3) Intervention and Mental Health Promotion in Schools EPSE 557 (3) Social and Emotional Interventions with Children and Youth EPSE 561 (12) Laboratory Practicum In School and Applied Child Psychology (6 credits each year 1 and 2) Research Coursework (minimum 3 credits) EPSE 599 (6) Thesis
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
20 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
01 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
15 December 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
01 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
15 December 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in School and Applied Child Psychology (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Criminal Record Check
This program contains a practicum component for which a
criminal record check
is required.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Program Components
Required Coursework and Experiences EPSE 551 (3) Consultation Advanced Professional Practice Electives (minimum 6 credits) Research Electives (minimum 6 credits—at least 1 quantitative and 1 qualitative across MA and PhD programs) CNPS 587 (1) History and Systems of Psychology EPSE 633 (3) Community Based Systems EPSE 661 (12) Doctoral Practicum in School and Applied Child Psychology1 (6 credits each year 1 and 2) EPSE 688 (1) Supervision of School and Applied Child Psychology Practice EPSE 689 (3) Pre-doctoral Internship in School and Applied Child Psychology Multicultural and Diversity Elective (can be combined with coursework in another area) Comprehensive Examination EPSE 699 (0) Dissertation Total: 35 credits
Research Facilities
The Psychoeducational Research and Training Centre (PRTC) is a university-based setting for research and clinical training within the Faculty of Education. The PRTC supports graduate training in educational assessment and counselling, maintains an up-to-date Test Library of assessment instruments, provides service and leadership in the profession and community, and facilitates research in education.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
From September 2024 all full-time students in UBC-Vancouver PhD programs will be provided with a funding package of at least $24,000 for each of the first four years of their PhD. The funding package may consist of any combination of internal or external awards, teaching-related work, research assistantships, and graduate academic assistantships. Please note that many graduate programs provide funding packages that are substantially greater than $24,000 per year. Please check with your prospective graduate program for specific details of the funding provided to its PhD students.
Average Funding
Based on the criteria outlined below,
15
students within this program were included in this study because they received funding through UBC in the form of teaching, research, academic assistantships or internal or external awards averaging
$26,314
.
1 student received Research Assistantships valued at $8,400.
4 students received Academic Assistantships. Average AA funding based on 4 students was $8,956.
15 students received internal awards. Average internal award funding based on 15 students was $18,579.
4 students received external awards. Average external award funding based on 4 students was $17,917.
Study Period: Sep 2022 to Aug 2023 - average funding for full-time PhD students enrolled in three terms per academic year in this program across years 1-4, the period covered by
UBC's Minimum Funding Guarantee
. Averages might mask variability in sources and amounts of funding received by individual students. Beyond year 4, funding packages become even more individualized.
Review methodology
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Outcomes
Career Options
School Psychology is a great career. There are many openings in BC and throughout North America, and starting salaries are excellent. With a Master's degree in School and Applied Child Psychology, the most common job is as a School Psychologist working in a school district and job prospects are excellent. In addition to working in schools, individuals with a degree in School and Applied Child School Psychology with PhD work in a variety of settings, including univerisities as researches and/or teaching, mental health agencies, child development centres, children’s hospitals, and private practices. With a M.Ed. degree in School and Applied Child Psychology from UBC, you would be eligible to apply for certification with the BC Association of School Psychologists. With a PhD, you would be eligible for registration as a psychologist with the College of Psychologists of BC and most other provinces and states in North America.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Doctor of Philosophy in School and Applied Child Psychology (PhD). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
This program went through a name change in previous years that may have included curriculum changes. It was previously known as: Doctor of Philosophy in School Psychology until 2021. Historical data on this page may include data collected under the previous name(s) of the program.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
20
16
11
6
10
Offers
4
7
0
5
6
New Registrations
2
7
0
3
5
Total Enrolment
21
23
19
22
22
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
100%
based on 9 students admitted between 2011 - 2014. Based on 9 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 4.1 years and the maximum time is 9.95 years with an average of
6.21 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in School and Applied Child Psychology (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Cloth, Allison
(Adolescence, Adolescent development, Child and Family Counseling in School Settings, Interventions, Mentoring, Program Evaluation, Social Justice, Young People Placed )
Ford, Laurie
(Early Childhood Assessment, Youth and Families)
Kassan, Anusha
(Social sciences; Child and youth mental health; Social justice; Multiculturalism and diversity; Feminist-multicultural pedagogy; immigration; Cultural and social justice responsiveness; Anti-oppressive therapy)
Nelson, Melanie
(experiences of Indigenous caregivers within Western systems)
Schanding, Thomas
(Social and Emotional Learning; Universal Screening; Behavioral/Mental Health Interventions; Autism Spectrum Disorders; LGBTQIA+; Youth Social Justice)
Doctoral Citations
A
doctoral citation
summarizes the nature of the independent research, provides a high-level overview of the study, states the significance of the work and says who will benefit from the findings in clear, non-specialized language, so that members of a lay audience will understand it.
Citation contains
Items
10
25
50
100
Year
Citation
2024
Dr. Bailey examined PATH implementation for individuals with disabilities in a BC secondary school. Findings included, PATH features, accountability, barriers, and positive impacts, with recommendations for improvement and theory-practice integration in future studies.
2023
The Squamish Nation afforded Dr. Nelson a collaborative community project exploring how youth identify and access support for mental health and wellness. Concrete examples of what youth do to support themselves through engagement in Indigenous practices and the use of Western strategies help us learn how to provide more responsive support to youth.
2023
Dr. King studied the experiences of youth returning to high school and re-engaging in their education after sustaining a mild traumatic brain injury/concussion. This research helps us understand the barriers these students face, what is helpful to them in this time, and what can be improved to better support their transition back to school.
2023
Dr. Starosta's research examined high school teachers responses to exclusionary behavior. Not only did teachers in her study recognize that both identity- and non-identity-based bullying were serious and required intervention, but they also appreciated the need to respond in ways that were supportive and addressed the specific type of bullying.
2021
Dr. Lee examined the meaning and the experience of a sense of belonging with participant researchers from a local refugee community in Vancouver, BC. She proposes a framework for designing and implementing programs and services that facilitate successful refugee settlement by means of addressing the fundamental human need to belong.
2021
Dr. Lee studied teacher responses to student peer victimization. By way of a social experiment, he found that teachers respond differently to bullying victims with emotional and behavioural problems. His research highlights teacher sensitivity to student mental health differences, and the need for further teacher-focused mental health initiatives.
2021
Dr. McClure investigated the effect of empathy on how elementary students defend others who are bullied by their peers, exploring different facets of empathy and a range of possible responses to bullying they witness. The study highlighted the need to focus on the more complex facets of empathy when trying to positively influence social change.
Sample Thesis Submissions
Using discursive approaches to understand immigrant families' and psychologists' emotion discourse in discussing feedback sessions
Student and text characteristics as predictors of reading persistence
Preliminary evaluation of universally delivered anxiety coping skills lessons for students with intellectual developmental disorder
"It doesn't have to be one thing or the other" : stories of second-generation bipolar disorder
Implementation of PATH in a secondary school : a case study
Indigenous youth access of support for mental health and wellness in schools and community : a case study
Critical incidents in student return to school following concussion
Understanding bullying among secondary students
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Arts in School and Applied Child Psychology (MA)
Master of Education in School and Applied Child Psychology (MEd)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Counselling Psychology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Human Development, Learning, and Culture (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Measurement, Evaluation and Research Methodology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Special Education (PhD)
Graduate Certificate in Orientation and Mobility (GCOM)
Master of Arts in Counselling Psychology (MA)
Master of Arts in Human Development, Learning, and Culture (MA)
Master of Arts in Measurement, Evaluation and Research Methodology (MA)
Master of Arts in Special Education (MA)
Master of Education in Counselling Psychology (MEd)
Master of Education in Human Development, Learning, and Culture (MEd)
Master of Education in Measurement, Evaluation and Research Methodology (MEd)
Master of Education in Special Education (MEd)
Further Information
Specialization
School and Applied Child Psychology
School and Applied Child Psychology prepares students to become psychologists who work in a variety of settings, including: research, academic, school, community, and private settings. The primary goal of the program is to develop professional psychologists whose research, training, and practice activities increase the educational and psychological well-being of children and youth. The program follows a scientist-practitioner model, with emphasis on the integration of theory, research, and clinical skills. Training encompasses academic, social, emotional, behavioural, consultation, intervention, and prevention domains. Students receive training in the integration of assessment and intervention, and in relevant professional, legal, and ethical issues.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/school-and-applied-child-psychology
Program Website
https://ecps.educ.ubc.ca/sacp/graduate-programs/phd-program/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Education
Academic Unit
Department of Educational & Counselling Psychology, and Special Education
Program Identifier
VGDPHD-WB2
Classification
Developmental psychology
Educational psychology
Social  psychology
Positive psychology
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
20 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
International Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ECPSubc/
https://twitter.com/ECPS_ubc/
https://www.youtube.com/user/ECPSubc/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Harris Wong
I completed my B.A. in psychology at UBC and loved my time here. It is a world-renowned university for a reason and I was constantly in awe of the beauty and size of the campus. Furthermore, there were great resources for students and I felt well-supported throughout my time at UBC. This was also...
Dorna Rahimi
I also completed my BA in Psychology at UBC, therefore I had established valuable connections with the students and the faculty. UBC was also the only university offering a degree in school psychology in BC. Therefore, it was an easy decision.
Sonja Saqui
UBC is a world-renowned university and consistently highly ranked as a premier learning institution. UBC attracts high-caliber researchers, faculty, and students. As such I knew I would be surrounding myself in an optimal learning environment within a collaborative context. I knew that graduate...
1 of 2
next ›
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver