Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/doctor-of-education-educational-leadership-policy

Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Education in Educational Leadership and Policy (EdD)
Doctor of Education in Educational Leadership and Policy (EdD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Ed.D. in Educational Leadership and Policy provides advanced preparation for education practitioners with leadership and policy responsibilities in both formal and nonformal settings. These settings include, among many others, the post-secondary sector, business and health organizations, unions, and community groups, as well as the K-12 school system.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The program is grounded in the belief that it is important for participants to engage in scholarly discourse about understanding, critiquing, and improving practice in educational settings. It consists of six required seminars, two elective courses, a comprehensive examination, and a dissertation. While the program addresses Canadian educational issues and perspectives in a global context, it is the particular settings and leadership or policy responsibilities of the participants that are the starting points of seminars. The expertise of qualified adjunct faculty from related professional fields supplements that of the regular faculty members.
Graduate school at UBC helped me to see things more broadly, to take more chances, not to be afraid to fail and to believe that I had things worth sharing with others.
Suzanne Windsor-Liscombe
Program Structure
Students are admitted to the Ed.D. in cohorts of 10 to 15 and proceed as a group through required courses and the comprehensive examination which occurs at the end of Year 2. Students then propose and execute their dissertation research projects. Students must complete all program requirements within six years of initial enrolment. Required courses are offered on campus for two consecutive Summer Sessions (July to mid-August) and two consecutive Winter Sessions (on weekends from September to early April).
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Education
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Thesis required
Academic Unit
Department of Educational Studies
Specialization
Educational Leadership and Policy
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for July 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
Please ensure you follow the instructions in the online application system. After submitting your application, it is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all supporting materials are submitted properly and by the application deadline. The Admissions Committee will only review complete applications. You can check the status of your application and supporting materials through the online application system.
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 92
Reading
22
Writing
22
Speaking
22
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Document Requirements
Letter of Intent; Writing Sample; Professional resume or CV
2) Meet Deadlines
July 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 August 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 November 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 November 2024
Referee Deadline:
29 November 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 November 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 November 2024
Referee Deadline:
29 November 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Education in Educational Leadership and Policy (EdD)
The program will review research interests of applicants and recommend/match faculty members during the application/evaluation process. Applicants should not reach out to faculty members directly.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Doctor of Education in Educational Leadership and Policy (EdD). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
38
0
41
35
0
Offers
8
0
11
12
0
New Registrations
8
0
10
11
0
Total Enrolment
53
53
54
49
44
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
50%
based on 33 students admitted between 2011 - 2014. Based on 11 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 4.44 years and the maximum time is 9.22 years with an average of
6.6 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Upcoming Doctoral Exams
Tuesday, 29 October 2024 - 9:00am
NICOLAS GAGNON
Transformations des Pratiques D'Enseignement en Contexte de Pandemie de COVID-19: Perspectives Enseignantes a L’Universite Laval
Tuesday, 19 November 2024 - 1:00pm
Juanita Desjarlais-Smith
Iskotew: Fire - Keeping the Fire Lit Indigenous Iskotwew (Women) Leading in Decolonizing Education Systems
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Education in Educational Leadership and Policy (EdD)
The program will review research interests of applicants and recommend/match faculty members during the application/evaluation process. Applicants should not reach out to faculty members directly.
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Abdi, Ali
(Comparative and cross-cultural education; Decolonizing philosophies of education, Development education, Critical research methodologies,; Human rights education)
Ahenakew, Cash
(Cultural studies, Higher Education, Indigenous Studies, Leadership and Organizations, Post-colonial studies, Race/ethnicity, Research methodologies, Social justice, Sociology of Education)
Andres, Lesley
(Higher education; life course research; international comparative higher education; sociology of higher education)
De Oliveira Andreotti, Vanessa
(Education for/about international development, Social accountability in local and global engagements, Global Citizenship Education)
Ellis, Jason
(Canadian history; Specialized studies in education; Educational policy; Education policy; history of education)
Fallon, Gerald
(Indigenous Studies, International and Comparative Education, Leadership and Organizations, Policy, Research methodologies)
Gill, Hartej
(Cultural studies, Leadership and Organizations, Post-colonial studies, Teaching and Practice)
Gleason, Mona
(History, archaeology and related studies)
Kelly, Deirdre
(Children and youth, Gender studies, Media and democracy, Social justice, Sociology of Education)
Kovach, Margaret
Mazawi, Andre
(Citizenship and democracy, Higher education, International and Comparative Education, Leadership and organizations, Research methodologies, Sociology of Education)
Metcalfe, Amy
(Higher education; Educational policy; History and philosophy of education; Visual theory, visual culture and visual literacy; Higher Education Studies; Higher Education Policy; Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Higher Education; Science and Knowledge; Internationalization; Migration Studies; Academic Labour and Mobility; Visual Research Methods; Campus Environments)
Rocha Perkerwicz, Samuel
(Educational policy; Specialized studies in education; Philosophical Traditions in Education; philosophy of education)
Roman, Leslie
(Ethnography, Cultural studies, Disability studies, Sociology of Education)
Ruitenberg, Claudia
(History and philosophy of education; Political science and policy administration; Environmental education and extension; Environmental philosophy and education; philosophy of education; Political education)
Shan, Hongxia
(Other education, n.e.c.; Immigration and adult education and learning; Lifelong learning; Gender and work; Prof. learning)
Stack, Michelle
(Adult and continuing education, and community education; Educational policy; Media studies (except social media and digital media); Community Engaged Research; Knowledge translation; Cooperatives and Social Solidarity Economies; University Rankings and Equity; Disability studies; anti-racism; media education)
Stein, Sharon Rebekah
(Higher education; Educational policy; Specialized studies in education; Educational theory; Global education; Higher Education; International and comparative education; International education; Pedagogy and education; Post-colonial studies; Race/ethnicity; Social and Cultural Foundations of Education; Social justice; sustainability; climate change)
Taylor, Alison
(Adult and continuing education, and community education; Educational administration, management and leadership; Educational policy; Higher education; Specialized studies in education; Education, Knowledge and Skills; Educational Context; Political Contexts; Social Contexts; Social Policies)
Vanwynsberghe, Robert
(Citizenship and democracy, Social justice, Sustainability; Sustainability; Environmental Education; Theory and Method)
Walker, Judith
(Adult and continuing education, and community education; Sociology of education; Educational policy; Adult education; Higher Education; policy studies; Health Professions Education)
Wang, Fei
(Educational administration, management and leadership; Educational policy; Specialized studies in education; Educational administration and leadership in K-12 setting; Leadership; the role of the school principals; social justice and diversity; comparative policy studies; Education and Training Management; Ideology and Social Policy; Social Contract and Social Justice; Offshore school and its leadership)
Webb, P. Taylor
(Education systems; Philosophy; Education governance, policy, and politics; Michel Foucault; Gilles Deleuze; Neoliberalism; Governmentality; Micropolitics; Biopolitics; Subjectivity; Artificial Intelligence)
Wright, Handel
(Educational policy; Specialized studies in education; (post)multiculturalism and multicultural education; Africana studies; Critical Race Theory; Cultural Studies; Educational Approaches; identity, citizenship and belonging; postcolonialism and decolonization; Transcultural Studies; Youth Studies; anti-racism)
Doctoral Citations
A
doctoral citation
summarizes the nature of the independent research, provides a high-level overview of the study, states the significance of the work and says who will benefit from the findings in clear, non-specialized language, so that members of a lay audience will understand it.
Citation contains
Items
10
25
50
100
Year
Citation
2024
Dr. Cho explored the transformative learning process among the 'Education Beyond Borders' members in Canada and Kenya in their collaboration. Her research helps to understand how the educators from the Global North and South navigated the issues of power and privilege in the postcolonial setting and adds to the conversation of decolonizing pedagogy.
2024
Dr. McCabe's research explored ableism in higher education, examining collective agreements and institutional policies governing academic responsibilities showing that ableism is strongly entrenched and condoned in university policies and governance.
2024
Dr. Baker's work focuses on the impact that Indigenous Knowledge and Indigenous Ways of Knowing had on settler educators in the North Vancouver School District and found that educators have the responsibility to infuse Indigenous Knowledge and Indigenous Ways of Knowing into practice. All learners will benefit as Indigenous Education is for all.
2023
Dr. Jones explores the ways apocalyptic poetry can be used to deepen understandings of living within dying systems. Drawing from the hypothetical example of drug coverage in a stage of systems collapse and the effects on persons living with disease, her work provides insight into mourning and relationality as key competencies in death pedagogy.
2023
Dr. Siedlaczek studied the influences leading to a new quality assurance policy in BC higher education. Her analysis demonstrates the impact of global discourses on local policymaking and the increasing focus on quality assurance as a policy issue. The research provides insight on institutionalizing quality assurance practices in higher education.
2023
Collaboration is a complex and relational practice, compounded by varying forms of power dynamics between government and non-profit stakeholders. Dr. Gill-Badesha presents insights informing practitioners and funders about the role of engaging processes and emotions to mitigate issues of power and politics in the early stages of collaboration.
2023
Dr. Khan examined the meaning of home for people who experienced turbulence and unexpected dislocation in refugee situations, and how their understanding of home may shift once they leave refugee camps and resettle in new places. The study reflected on the concept of home as associated with a sense of belonging, security, and hope.
2022
What role do universities play in society beyond education and research? Dr. Wood critically examined the relationship between society and UBC's health faculties, departments and schools. Her research highlights the social contract between the university and society and its potential to play an advocacy role toward its improvement.
2021
Dr. Fleming's research explored the challenges and strategic opportunities of leadership in post-secondary education under growing neoliberal conditions. He concludes that neoliberal conditions redefine education as a commodified resource in a global marketplace, shifting educational practice away from principles of participatory democracy.
2021
Dr. Allen explored the experience of precarious faculty members in British Columbian higher education institutions. Using auto ethnographic methods and an organizational culture theoretical framework, Dr. Allen made recommendations for senior leadership to foster more inclusivity with precarious faculty within higher education organizations.
Pages
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
The caring practices of women in higher education leadership : an interpretative phenomenological analysis of care
Who do we trust? : life histories of women in school leadership
Community-university engagement in Canada : boundary spanner practice
Ableism in higher education : collective agreements, EDI initiatives, and accommodation policies
Indigenous knowledge and Indigenous ways of knowing and settler educator practice in the North Vancouver School District
Transformative learning through collaboration : experiences of education beyond borders’ members from Canada and Kenya
A humanities-based pedagogy of death : apocalyptic prose as public reimbursement collapse competency
What's at stake and what's at play : a case study of government and non-profit stakeholders and their experiences of power in the early stages of collaboration
The meaning of home : untold stories of people from Dadaab Refugee Camp studying at Canadian postsecondary institutions
Quality assurance in British Columbia higher education : a policy analysis
Related Programs
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Educational Studies (PhD)
Graduate Certificate in Adult Learning and Education (GCALE)
Graduate Certificate in Higher Education (GCHIED)
Master of Arts in Educational Studies (MA)
Master of Education in Adult Learning and Education (MEd)
Master of Education in Adult Learning and Global Change (MEd)
Master of Education in Curriculum and Leadership (MEd)
Master of Education in Educational Administration and Leadership (MEd)
Master of Education in Educational Studies (MEd)
Master of Education in Higher Education (MEd)
Master of Education in Society, Culture and Politics in Education (MEd)
Further Information
Specialization
Educational Leadership and Policy
Educational Leadership and Policy provides advanced preparation for education practitioners with leadership and policy responsibilities in both formal and nonformal settings. These settings include, among many others, the post-secondary sector, business and health organizations, unions, and community groups, as well as the K-12 school system.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/educational-leadership-and-policy
Program Website
https://edst.educ.ubc.ca/programs/edd-in-educational-leadership-and-policy/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Education
Academic Unit
Department of Educational Studies
Program Identifier
VGDEDD-G1
Classification
Educational assessment and evaluation
Educational administration, management and leadership
Specialist studies in education, n.e.c.
Educational policy
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for July 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
July 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 August 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 November 2024
International Applicant Deadline
15 November 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://twitter.com/edstubc/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver