Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/doctor-dental-medicine

Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Dental Medicine (DMD)
Doctor of Dental Medicine (DMD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
The DMD program is not considered a graduate degree at UBC despite carrying Doctor in its name.
Thus, the program is not administered by Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies. Admission to the DMD program resides with the Faculty of Dentistry. Interested students should visit the
DMD program website
for further information.
Overview
The Doctor of Dental Medicine degree program is designed to prepare students to practice their chosen profession with appropriate competence. The program is based on sound knowledge of the related biological sciences, strong clinical skills, and an understanding of the role of the dentist as a health professional and leader in the community.
The program provides state-of-the-art educational facilities, inspirational faculty who encourage excellence, and student services that support and assist students in their transitions into, during, out of and beyond the program. The student-centered, innovative curriculum utilizes active learning methodologies, and integrates the basic biomedical, behavioural and clinical sciences to ultimately develop DMD graduates with the knowledge, skills and values that underlie competence.
The DMD curriculum at UBC is inquiry-based incorporating hybrid problem-based learning (PBL), case-based and blended learning activities, and more traditional lectures and clinical experiences. It emphasizes self-directed student learning and problem solving in small group settings. Lectures occupy a smaller amount of curriculum time than traditional curricula.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
Open All
Further Information
Specialization
Dental Medicine
UBC Calendar
http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,201,314,0
Program Website
https://www.dentistry.ubc.ca/dmd/dmd-admission-procedures/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Dentistry
Academic Unit
Faculty of Dentistry
Program Website
Experience the colours of Vancouver
Great academic programs, great location: the distinct seasons and mild climate are among the reasons why graduate students choose to study here -- from the autumn leaves to cherry blossoms, witness the many colours Vancouver has to offer.