Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-chemical-biological-engineering

Doctor of Philosophy in Chemical and Biological Engineering (PhD)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Philosophy in Chemical and Biological Engineering (PhD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
Chemical and Chemical & Biological engineers create and develop processes to change raw materials into the products that society depends on; food, chemicals, fuels, energy, metals, pharmaceuticals, paper, plastics, and personal care products. Chemical and process engineers help to manage natural resources, protect the environment, control health and safety procedures, and recycle materials, while developing and managing the processes which make the products we use.
The Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering was established in 1999 at UBC, and reflects the growing need for engineers in the fields of biotechnology, biomedical and bio-resource engineering. At present there are 24 full-time faculty in the Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, together with a support staff of 17.
We have established a world-class reputation in several areas of chemical engineering science including fluid-solids contacting, pulp and paper engineering, heat exchanger fouling and, more recently, biotechnology.
The Department is actively engaged in applied research, CHBE faculty-led research provides innovative and sustainable solutions to pressing local and global challenges to industry and society.
Energy and Fuels:
Sustainable clean energy and fuels supply and use
Natural Resources:
Managing and maximizing the value of Canada’s forest and fossil carbon reserves
Environment:
Mitigating climate change/pollution
;
Clean water and biodiversity security
Health:
Rising medical costs in the face of aging population
;
Cancer and other deadly diseases
Industry:
Increasing pressure from emerging economies
Solutions to the above challenges are inextricably linked to our understanding of complex chemical and biological systems.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Applied Science
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Dissertation
Academic Unit
Department of Chemical & Biological Engineering
Specialization
Chemical and Biological Engineering
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for May 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 90
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
2) Meet Deadlines
May 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
01 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
01 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
01 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
01 January 2025
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 February 2025
Transcript Deadline:
01 April 2025
Referee Deadline:
01 April 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 February 2025
Transcript Deadline:
01 April 2025
Referee Deadline:
01 April 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Chemical and Biological Engineering (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
From September 2024 all full-time students in UBC-Vancouver PhD programs will be provided with a funding package of at least $24,000 for each of the first four years of their PhD. The funding package may consist of any combination of internal or external awards, teaching-related work, research assistantships, and graduate academic assistantships. Please note that many graduate programs provide funding packages that are substantially greater than $24,000 per year. Please check with your prospective graduate program for specific details of the funding provided to its PhD students.
Average Funding
Based on the criteria outlined below,
62
students within this program were included in this study because they received funding through UBC in the form of teaching, research, academic assistantships or internal or external awards averaging
$35,995
.
42 students received Teaching Assistantships. Average TA funding based on 42 students was $4,013.
60 students received Research Assistantships. Average RA funding based on 60 students was $22,950.
8 students received Academic Assistantships. Average AA funding based on 8 students was $2,207.
62 students received internal awards. Average internal award funding based on 62 students was $6,969.
8 students received external awards. Average external award funding based on 8 students was $29,554.
Study Period: Sep 2022 to Aug 2023 - average funding for full-time PhD students enrolled in three terms per academic year in this program across years 1-4, the period covered by
UBC's Minimum Funding Guarantee
. Averages might mask variability in sources and amounts of funding received by individual students. Beyond year 4, funding packages become even more individualized.
Review methodology
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Outcomes
106 students graduated between 2005 and 2013: 1 graduate is seeking employment; 1 is in a non-salaried situation; for 8 we have no data (based on research conducted between Feb-May 2016). For the remaining 96 graduates:
RI (Research-Intensive) Faculty: typically tenure-track faculty positions (equivalent of the North American Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor positions) in PhD-granting institutions
TI (Teaching-Intensive) Faculty: typically full-time faculty positions in colleges or in institutions not granting PhDs, and teaching faculty at PhD-granting institutions
Term Faculty: faculty in term appointments (e.g. sessional lecturers, visiting assistant professors, etc.)
Sample Employers in Higher Education
University of British Columbia (10)
McGill University (2)
King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals (2)
University of Costa Rica
Iran University of Science and Technology
Shandong University
Universiti Malaysia Sabah
Universidad Veracruzana
South University of Science and Technology of China
Daegu University
Sample Employers Outside Higher Education
Coanda Research and Development Corporation (3)
Ballard Power Systems (2)
Honeywell (2)
ZincNyx Energy Solutions, Inc. (2)
NORAM Engineering and Constructors Ltd. (2)
DuPont
St. Jude Children's Research Hospital
Council of Scientific and Industrial Research
TAKREER (Abu Dhabi Oil Refining Company)
Wood Group
Sample Job Titles Outside Higher Education
Research Engineer (4)
Research Scientist (3)
Scientist (2)
Research and Technology Advisor (2)
Senior Research Scientist (2)
Engineer (2)
Director (2)
Senior Process Research Scientist
Research Engineer, Strategic Technology Planner
Head, Process Modeling & Simulation Section
PhD Career Outcome Survey
You may view the full report on career outcomes of UBC PhD graduates on
outcomes.grad.ubc.ca
.
Disclaimer
This program underwent a name or structural change in the study time frame, and all alumni from the previous program were included in these summaries. These data represent historical employment information and do not guarantee future employment prospects for graduates of this program. They are for informational purposes only. Data were collected through either alumni surveys or internet research.
Alumni on Success
Jasna Jankovic
Job Title
Assistant Professor
Employer
University of Connecticut
Jorge Octavio Virues Delgadillo
Job Title
Full Time Professor
Employer
Facultad Ciencias Químicas, Universidad Veracruzana
Hooman Rezaei
Job Title
Senior Research Scientist
Employer
FPInnovations
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Doctor of Philosophy in Chemical and Biological Engineering (PhD). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
82
94
99
116
84
Offers
18
14
15
30
12
New Registrations
10
12
12
27
10
Total Enrolment
82
82
83
67
70
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
95%
based on 66 students admitted between 2011 - 2014. Based on 41 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.02 years and the maximum time is 9.22 years with an average of
5.37 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Upcoming Doctoral Exams
Wednesday, 23 October 2024 - 11:00am
Shahid Muhammad Bashir
Gas Diffusion Electrode Engineering and Flow Dynamics for Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide Reduction Reactions
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Chemical and Biological Engineering (PhD)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Baldwin, Susan
(Bioprocess engineering, bioremediation, biomedical reaction modelling)
Berlinguette, Curtis
(Combinatorial Chemistry; CO2 conversion and utilization; clean energy; advanced solar cells; electrochromic windows; dynamic windows; hydrogen fuels production; catalysis; robotics and automation; machine learning / artificial intelligence)
Bi, Xiaotao
(Chemical engineering; Biomass and Bioenergy; Electrostatics of Powders; Fluidization; Fuel Cells Water Management; Green Engineering; Industrial Symbiosis; Life Cycle Analysis; Multiphase Chemical Reactors; Particle technology)
Cao, Yankai
(Chemical engineering; Machine Learning; optimization; Renewable energy systems; Process Control)
Cranston, Emily
(Nanoparticle synthesis, properties and applications; Bio-based materials and nanocellulose; Atomic force microscopy (forces, adhesion, friction, imaging); Colloid and interface science; Polymer chemistry; Cellulose nanocrystals; Bioproducts; Foams, emulsions, aerogels)
Ellis, Naoko
(Chemical engineering; Chemical Processes; CO2 capture and utilization; Interdisciplinary teaching and learning; multiphase systems; thermochemical conversion of biomass)
Englezos, Petros
(Carbon capture engineering)
Feng, James
(Chemical engineering; Mathematics and statistics; Biophysics; Complex fluids; Fluid mechanics; Mathematical biology)
Foster, Johan
(Chemical engineering; 3D Printing; Biomaterials; Biomedical Devices; Bioproducts; Cellulose Nanomaterials; Fibers; Polymers)
Frostad, John
(Chemical engineering; Food sciences (including food engineering); Emulsions; Physics of Soft Matter; Agricultural Sprays; Food Physics; Interfacial Rheology; Novel Instrumentation; Foams; Fluid mechanics)
Gopaluni, Bhushan
(Modelling and experiment design, identification for control)
Gyenge, Elod Lajos
(Electrochemical engineering, fuel cells, batteries, electrodes)
Hatzikiriakos, Savvas
(Polymer melt and suspension rheology, food rheology, polymer melt processing, superhydrophobicity, surface science, winter sports expert, ski/skate performance and snow/ice friction. )
Haynes, Charles
(Protein purification, recombinant proteins, molecular thermodynamics, biocompatible polymers)
Hill, Jane
Lau, Anthony K
(Environmental engineering, waste-to-resource recycling, composting, odor control, biohydrogen energy )
Lees, Eric
(Electrochemical engineering, Electrochemical synthesis, Continuum modelling, Reactor design, Transport phenomena, Electrochemical separations, CO2 capture and conversion, Continuum and techno-economic/life cycle assessment modelling, Electrochemical reactions and separations, Atmospheric water harvesting)
Martinez, Mark
(Chemical engineering; Complex fluids; Flow visualization; Fluid mechanics)
Mohseni, Madjid
(Chemical engineering; Water quality engineering; Drinking Water; Chemical Pollutants; Used Water; Clean Technologies; Advanced oxidation; Drinking water quality and treatment; Electrochemical water treatment processes; UV based water purification and treatment; Water re-use; Per- and Poly-fluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS))
Piret, James
(Biomedical engineering, regenerative medicine Cell-based therapies have the potential to provide improved treatments for major diseases such as cancer and diabetes)
Rahmani, Mona
(Multiphase and Density Stratified Fluid Mechanics, Fiber Suspensions, Renewable Energy, Hydrodynamic Instability, Mixing)
Rojas, Orlando
(Nanopolysaccharides (based on cellulose, chitin, starches and others); Bacterial nanocelluloses; Cellulose derivatives; Lignins, colloidal lignins, nanolignins and their uses; Renewable biopolymers (hemicelluloses, proteins, chitin and chitosan, alginates and others); Multiphase systems (emulsions, foams, dispersed systems), gels, aerogels; Films, filaments and hybrid materials; Nanocomposites; Bioactive systems; Fiber processing; Pulp and paper)
Srebnik, Simcha
(Chemical engineering; Bioinspired engineering and biomimetic design; Carbon nanotubes; Developing models for interfacial polymerization membraned; Diffusion in nanostructured materials; Functional materials; Hierarchical modeling; Mechanical properties of polymers melts and polymer networks; Molecular simulation of polymers and composite materials; Molecular simulations; Optimization of protein-imprinted polymers; Polymers and biopolymers; Protein folding and stability; Statistical thermodynamics of polymers and biopolymers; Understanding polymer-carbon nanotube interactions)
Taghipour, Fariborz
(Artificial Photosynthetic Systems, UV Photoreactors, Modeling of Chemical and Biochemical Reactors, Computational Fluid Dynamics)
Trajano, Heather
(Chemical engineering; Biomass (Energy); Wood; Pulp and paper; Biochemicals; Biomass extractives recovery and utilization; Biorefining; catalysis; Hemicellulose; Kinetics; Pretreatment)
Pages
1
2
next ›
last »
Doctoral Citations
A
doctoral citation
summarizes the nature of the independent research, provides a high-level overview of the study, states the significance of the work and says who will benefit from the findings in clear, non-specialized language, so that members of a lay audience will understand it.
Citation contains
Items
10
25
50
100
Year
Citation
2024
Dr. Asadi developed sustainable solutions utilizing ion exchange and electrochemical processes for effectively treating per- and poly-fluoro alkyl substances, commonly known as "forever chemicals," from water sources.
2024
Dr. Zimmermann loves water. His primary research at UBC was understanding the science and application of a biological drinking water filter. However, his interests in water took him into the world of sustainable development when he got to visit nine NGOs on five continents to learn about their experiences with safe water for community health.
2024
Dr. Bi aimed at improving the electrolyzer design, operation, and measurement toward ammonia electrosynthesis. He pinpointed inefficiencies of commercial separators in aqueous setups and designed low-cost electrodes for non-aqueous electrolyzers to benefit sustainable ammonia production.
2024
Dr. Cao focused on using artificial intelligence (AI) to develop interpretable and robust data-driven technologies. His work offers innovative frameworks for enhancing the monitoring, control, and optimization of industrial processes, leading to improved environmental sustainability and modernizing industrial applications.
2024
Dr. Villalba investigated the mechanisms by which fibres form jams in pressure screening. He identified jamming as a random, intermittent process and discovered that the jamming intermittency provides insights into onset of permanent blockages, potentially leading to the development of a sensor for screening operations.
2024
Dr. Wang's research focuses on accurately modeling Lithium-ion battery degradation from a data-driven perspective. He proposed various methods to enhance the generalizability of the model and developed a highly interpretable model. This study significantly advances the safe and reliable usage of Lithium-ion batteries.
2024
Dr. Goyal developed a fast and accurate method to solve complex flow problems such as dust storms and the transmission of airborne viruses. The method uses the supercomputers efficiently to provide the solution five times quicker than the conventional method, allowing further investigation of complex flow problems in industries.
2024
Dr. Pei studied bifunctional gas diffusion electrodes for reversible oxygen reaction catalysis. The findings provide valuable insights into designing durable and highly active transition-metal-based reversible oxygen electrodes for energy conversion and storage systems, contributing to a green future.
2024
Dr. Mirzaei delved into finding an environmentally friendly water treatment train for highly toxic chemicals called PFAS. Her thorough systematic experimental and theoretical work orchestrated the potential combination of UV based degradation and removal techniques and offered new mechanistic understanding and guidelines in the given application.
2023
Dr. Masjoudi demonstrated the potential of vacuum-UV advanced oxidation processes as a viable treatment for elimination of micropollutants in potable water reuse. Her research enhances the quality of recycled water, making the reuse strategy more feasible for water-scarce communities.
Pages
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
Valorization of wood bark towards value-added chemicals, structures, and bioproducts
Scaling up microbial fuel cells for remediation of acid rock drainage
Transfer learning via Gaussian process and Probabilistic principal component analysis and its application in real-world industry data
Development of a minimal cell-free protein synthesis system for industrial scale production of Bordetella pertussis antigens Fimbriae 2 and 3
Microcystin-LR degradation by vacuum ultraviolet and ozone : chloride and bromide ions effects
Electrochemical degradation of per- and poly-fluoroalkyl substances (PFAS)
Biological ion exchange and its application in drinking water systems
Per- and poly- fluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) destruction in concentrated waste using advanced oxidation/ reduction processes (AO/RPs)
Vacuum-UV/chlorine advanced oxidation process for micropollutants removal in potable reuse trains
Photodegradation of per- and poly-fluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) using vacuum-UV (VUV) radiation
Development of a polyiodide aqueous/non-aqueous flow battery
Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances : removal from recycled and impaired waters using ion exchange process
Insights into the jamming mechanisms in pressure screening
Impacts of electrolyzer design, operation, and measurement on ammonia electrosynthesis in aqueous and non-aqueous media
Interpretable and stable soft sensor modeling for industrial applications
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Applied Science in Chemical and Biological Engineering (MASc)
Master of Engineering in Chemical and Biological Engineering (MEng)
Master of Science in Chemical and Biological Engineering (MSc)
Same Academic Unit
Master of Engineering Leadership in Sustainable Process Engineering (MEL)
Further Information
Specialization
Chemical and Biological Engineering
Chemical and Biological Engineering provides innovative and sustainable solutions to pressing local and global challenges to industry and society, with faculty being engaged in the following broad areas:
Biotechnology,
Chemical Process Engineering,
Energy and Materials,
Environmental Engineering.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/chemical-and-biological-engineering
Program Website
https://chbe.ubc.ca/future-students/graduate/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Applied Science
Academic Unit
Department of Chemical & Biological Engineering
Program Identifier
VGDPHD-D2
Classification
Chemical engineering
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for May 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
May 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
International Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 February 2025
International Applicant Deadline
01 February 2025
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/CHBEUBC/
https://twitter.com/CHBEUBC/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Why should you choose UBC?
From academic excellence and modern facilities to our diverse degree program listings to being named one of the “most innovative universities” by Reuters in 2019, UBC has a lot to offer.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC