Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/phd-teaching-english-second-language

Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Doctor of Philosophy in Teaching English as a Second Language (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Teaching English as a Second Language (PhD)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
Teaching English as a Second Language (TESL) examines the social, linguistic, educational, cognitive, cultural and political processes affecting the teaching, learning, assessment, and use of English as an additional language locally and globally. TESL graduate students gain experience and understanding in such areas as: current issues in TESL theory and practice; second language acquisition, second language reading and writing, language socialization, language and identity, second language assessment, discourse analysis, critical applied linguistics, and research methods.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The program faculty have expertise in TESL methods, applied linguistics, second language acquisition and socialization, content-based language education, pedagogical and functional grammar, second language writing, issues of language and identity, language in education, multilingual literacies, language policy, and English in immigrant and international communities. The program also jointly sponsors the UBC/Ritsumeikan Joint Academic Exchange Program.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Education
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Dissertation
Academic Unit
Department of Language & Literacy Education
Specialization
Teaching English as a Second Language
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 92
Reading
22
Writing
22
Speaking
22
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.5
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
Master’s degree with high standing in a relevant educational discipline
Document Requirements
Master’s degree with high standing in a relevant educational discipline.
Sample of work demonstrating an ability to undertake research and scholarly writing (max. 30 pages).
CV or resume outlining work experience and academic history.
Well-written 500 word (maximum) Statement of Intent to describe your proposed doctoral research. Be sure to indicate how your previous education, professional experience, and research have prepared you to undertake your proposed research, and note which people in the department have expertise in your intended area of study.
The support of three referees including an assessment by at least two university instructors, preferably one of whom is the supervisor of the masters thesis.
Scanned copies all official transcripts (including a key to transcript grades and symbols) and degree certificates from all post-secondary institutions attended outside UBC.
Other Requirements
Awards; fellowships; scholarships; and distinctions.
Relevant professional and academic experience including conference presentations, professional workshops, and publications.
At least two years of successful teaching experience or equivalent.
Applicants who received a degree from a North American university are not required to submit their English test scores. Similarly, applicants who completed their degree outside North America from an institution in which English was the primary language of instruction of the entire university (not just a program) are not required to provide English test scores as part of their application.
Please note that we can only accept your English test scores if the test has been taken within the last 24 months at the time of submission of the application. An official test score report ordered from the testing agency has to be sent to UBC. Acceptable English language proficiency tests for applicants to UBC Grad School are:
TOEFL – Test of English as a Foreign Language, minimum score 580 (paper-based) or 237 (computer based), or new minimum TOEFL score of 92 (with a minimum of 22 for each component).
or
MELAB – Michigan English Language Assessment Battery. Minimum overall score 85.
or
IELTS – International English Language Testing System – Academic. Minimum overall band score 7, with no component less than 6.5.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
05 August 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
06 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
15 December 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
06 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
15 December 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Teaching English as a Second Language (PhD)
The program will review research interests of applicants and recommend/match faculty members during the application/evaluation process. Applicants should not reach out to faculty members directly.
There is no need to find a supervisor prior to applying for the program. If you are successful in the application process, you will be assigned a pro-tem supervisor whose research is closest to your area of interest. However, if you are interested in working with a particular faculty member, you can indicate it in your statement of interest or in the application form.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Highlights
TESL methods; Applied linguistics; Critical applied linguistics; Discourse analysis; Intercultural communication; Second language acquisition and socialization; Content-based language education; Pedagogical and functional grammar; Second language writing; Issues of language and identity; Language in education; Multilingual literacies; Language policy; English in immigrant and international communities.
Research Focus
TESL methods; Applied linguistics; Critical applied linguistics; Discourse analysis; Intercultural communication; Second language acquisition and socialization; Content-based language education; Pedagogical and functional grammar; Second language writing; Issues of language and identity; Language in education; Multilingual literacies; Language policy; English in immigrant and international communities.
Program Components
The program consists of 18 to 24 credits of course work (including the LLED 601 Doctoral Seminar), comprehensive exam followed by an oral examination, a dissertation proposal, and a doctoral dissertation.
Geographic Restrictions
The TESL/TEFL program accepts well-qualified students from around the globe into a richly international and multicultural academic community.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
All full-time students who begin a UBC-Vancouver PhD program in September 2024 will be provided with a funding package of $24,000 for each of the first four years of their PhD. The funding package may consist of any combination of internal or external awards, teaching-related work, research assistantships, and graduate academic assistantships.
Average Funding
Based on the criteria outlined below,
6
students within this program were included in this study because they received funding through UBC in the form of teaching, research, academic assistantships or internal or external awards averaging
$38,194
.
3 students received Teaching Assistantships. Average TA funding based on 3 students was $6,036.
5 students received Research Assistantships. Average RA funding based on 5 students was $10,150.
1 student received Academic Assistantships valued at $7,664.
6 students received internal awards. Average internal award funding based on 6 students was $25,441.
Study Period: Sep 2022 to Aug 2023 - average funding for full-time PhD students enrolled in three terms per academic year in this program across years 1-4, the period covered by
UBC's Minimum Funding Guarantee
. Averages might mask variability in sources and amounts of funding received by individual students. Beyond year 4, funding packages become even more individualized.
Review methodology
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Outcomes
Career Options
Integrating research and practice, the graduate programs in Teaching English as a Second Language (TESL) offer professional development to teachers of ESL and prepare researchers and leaders in applied linguistics.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Doctor of Philosophy in Teaching English as a Second Language (PhD). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
41
43
43
55
41
Offers
0
2
2
1
1
New Registrations
0
2
2
1
1
Total Enrolment
11
12
14
16
16
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
80%
based on 11 students admitted between 2011 - 2014. Based on 6 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 3.75 years and the maximum time is 8.21 years with an average of
5.62 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Doctor of Philosophy in Teaching English as a Second Language (PhD)
The program will review research interests of applicants and recommend/match faculty members during the application/evaluation process. Applicants should not reach out to faculty members directly.
There is no need to find a supervisor prior to applying for the program. If you are successful in the application process, you will be assigned a pro-tem supervisor whose research is closest to your area of interest. However, if you are interested in working with a particular faculty member, you can indicate it in your statement of interest or in the application form.
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Ahmed, Anwar
(Languages and literature)
Duff, Patricia
(applied linguistics and sociolinguistics, multilingualism and work, sociocultural and sociopolitical aspects of languages in education, Adolescent issues, adult education issues, English and French as second languages, international perspecives)
Early, Margaret
(Adolescent issues, English as a second Language, language education, literacy, teacher research)
Gunderson, Lee Paul
(Languages and literature; reading-research; immigrant-achievement; home literacy environment)
Kubota, Ryuko
(Specialized studies in education; critical applied linguistics; culture and language; Language Rights and Policies; language education; language ideologies; multicultural education; race and language teaching)
Li, Guofang
(longitudinal studies of immigrant children)
Norton, Bonny
(education, ESL, international perspectives, literacy, teacher research)
Talmy, Steven
(ESL, TESOL, LOTE and sign language curriculum, pedagogy and didactics; teacher education)
Wernicke, Meike
(Specialized studies in education; Intercultural Education; Language Planning and Policy; Multi-/Plurilingualism; Second Language Education (French); teacher education)
Zappa, Sandra
(academic discourse socialization of (international) English language learners in higher education, examining the literacy socialization trajectories and the role their individual networks of practice (INoPs, a concept I coined) in becoming aware of the host culture values and expectations; projects examining the intercultural competence development of foreign language teachers studying abroad; foreign language-learning through peer exchange programs; academic English coaching for university-level English language learners; collaboration between language and subject specialists; and student perceptions of academic English language development in CBI courses.)
Doctoral Citations
A
doctoral citation
summarizes the nature of the independent research, provides a high-level overview of the study, states the significance of the work and says who will benefit from the findings in clear, non-specialized language, so that members of a lay audience will understand it.
Citation contains
Items
10
25
50
100
Year
Citation
2023
Dr. Afreen investigated Bangla heritage language teachers' transcultural identities in greater Vancouver. Teachers' investment in promoting Bangla as a mother tongue was informed by children's transcultural identities in Canada. This research advances knowledge about the identity of heritage language teachers in multicultural communities worldwide.
2022
The global COVID-19 pandemic has affected us all. Dr. Detwyler studied its early impacts on instructors of English as a second language in Canada. Their talk about emergency remote teaching reflected pandemic vulnerability among learners, precarious employment in the sector, and Canada's settler-colonial past as ongoing professional challenges.
2022
Dr. Abrar-ul-Hassan researched the role of instructors, who were working in public and private postsecondary institutions located in the Lower Mainland, British Columbia, as assessors in English for Academic Purposes (EAP) programs. His research contributes to the understanding of EAP assessment practices in a Canadian context.
2022
Dr. Moore developed new theory to explain the nature and causes of a phenomenon among Japanese-English bilinguals in which they distance themselves from their Japanese first language and culture. Terming the phenomenon first language dissociation, he identified a complex set of psychological and social factors that contribute to its emergence.
2021
Dr. Wong explored inquiry-based learning experiences of Grade 6 English Language Learners in a technology-enhanced classroom. Her results indicated that students were engaged in innovative learning tasks which encouraged them to move their competencies, such as effective internet use, and knowledge, such as grandparent stories, into the classroom.
2021
Dr. Gilman explored the impact of a family literacy program on women with immigrant and refugee backgrounds. This study concluded that a three-way model of family literacy has the potential for highly positive outcomes in both social and academic domains.
2019
Dr. Balyasnikova examined English language learning trajectories of older immigrants to Canada. Her research highlights the importance of creating tailored educational programs for this population. As part of her study, Dr. Balyasnikova developed curriculum that can be used in diverse instructional contexts.
2019
Dr. Surtees investigated English language learning, focussing on conversations between study abroad students and their peers. Her findings highlight factors that help and hinder abilities to build peer networks in English as well as the important role that previous international experience plays in facilitating interaction and relationship building.
2019
To understand and scaffold source-based writing practices of graduate students, Dr. Kowkabi offered a socio-pedagogical approach for analyzing the processes of source selection and source integration in student writing. Her study provides insights for institutional and educational action plans to support student interactions with source texts.
2018
Dr. Fazel explored how doctoral students at a Canadian university attempted to publish their research. He also interviewed journal editors to seek their perspectives on the challenges facing doctoral students in getting published. This research has important implications for doctoral education and supervision.
Pages
1
2
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
Beliefs and practices in teaching English as an international language : a multiple case study of secondary English teachers in South Korea
Transcultural identity and Bangla heritage language teaching
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Arts in Teaching English as a Second Language (MA)
Master of Education in Teaching English as a Second Language (MEd)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Language and Literacy Education (PhD)
Master of Arts in Literacy Education (MA)
Master of Arts in Modern Languages Education (MA)
Master of Education in Literacy Education (MEd)
Master of Education in Modern Languages Education (MEd)
Further Information
Specialization
Teaching English as a Second Language
Teaching English as a Second Language (TESL) examines the social, linguistic, educational, cognitive, cultural and political processes affecting the teaching, learning, assessment, and use of English as an additional language locally and globally. The program faculty have expertise in TESL methods, applied linguistics, second language acquisition and socialization, content-based language education, pedagogical and functional grammar, second language writing, issues of language and identity, language in education, multilingual literacies, language policy, and English in immigrant and international communities
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/teaching-english-second-language
Program Website
https://lled.educ.ubc.ca/programs/tesl/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Education
Academic Unit
Department of Language & Literacy Education
Program Identifier
VGDPHD-XP
Classification
ESL, TESOL, LOTE and sign language curriculum, pedagogy and didactics
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
05 August 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
International Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://twitter.com/UBC_LLED/
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC3MyApPu3iCga0NMUxqmEyQ/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Start calling Vancouver “Home”
The metropolitan area is known for its diversity and UBC is one of the most international universities in Canada. This multicultural community means we have a wide range of restaurants, grocery stores, and events to provide a sense of belonging.