Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/earth-environmental-sciences/

Earth and Environmental Sciences
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Explore how the planet works and its deep history, then discover how to deploy that knowledge to benefit society and the environment. You'll study the nature and properties of Earth systems, while learning how to apply scientific knowledge from a broad range of disciplines.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Develop an understanding of the fundamental natural processes that shape Earth and its environment, and an appreciation of how humans are influencing its future. The Earth and Environmental Sciences program allows you the flexibility to pursue your interests, from the solid earth sciences to the environment. Choose from courses covering mineral resources, water resources, river hydrology, climate and paleo-climate, hydrogeology, land use management, environmental assessment, geochemistry, and other topics. By the time you graduate, you’ll have gained skills in experimentation, observation, data collection, laboratory techniques, and spatial data analysis, and learned how to integrate multiple information sources and communicate your conclusions.
As a Bachelor of Science student on UBC’s Okanagan campus, you can choose a major, honours, or minor in Earth and Environmental Sciences. Complement your major with a minor in topics such as Biology, Data Science, Environmental Chemistry, or Geography. Or choose courses that meet the academic requirements you need to register as a Professional Geoscientist or Professional Agrologist.
Experiential learning and research
Work with renowned UBC faculty members on research projects related to hydrology, geomorphology, geochemistry, environmental systems, and tectonics. Or study at other universities around the world through the Go Global program.
In your third or fourth year of study, you’ll have the option of completing directed studies and conducting independent readings and research. If you choose the honours option, you’ll undertake an independent research project under the supervision of a faculty member. The Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science holds an annual undergraduate research conference on UBC’s Okanagan campus to showcase student research projects.
Go Global
Irving K. Barber School Undergraduate Research Awards
NSERC Undergraduate Student Research Awards
Tuum Est Student Initiative Fund
Campus features
The Department of Earth, Environmental and Geographic Sciences is home to a wide range of research facilities:
Fipke Laboratory for Trace Element Research (FiLTER)
, a multi-million dollar, state-of-the-art facility with equipment for major and trace element analysis and electron microbeam imaging
Okanagan Institute for Biodiversity, Resilience, and Ecosystem Services (BRAES)
, a collaborative research institute working in ecology, biodiversity and conservation, water conservation and quality, and environmental sustainability
In addition, individual faculty members have active research programs backed by modern laboratory facilities, including the
Complex Environmental Systems Lab
, the
PALEO Lab
, and the
Structural Geology and Tectonics Group
.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
EESC 101 - Environmental Science
A quantitative and scientific approach to the understanding of global energy, water and nutrient cycling; growth of human populations and their effects on the environment and ecosystem function.  Functional understanding of modern environmental issues, and the requirements of, and opportunities for, sustainability.
EESC 111 - Earth Science
Origin, structure and composition of Earth. Plate tectonics as the unifying mechanism for mountain building, formation of ocean basins, and assembly and break-up of continents. Minerals, rocks, Earth surface processes, geological maps, natural resources and hazards.
EESC 121 - Earth History
Origin of rocks, oceans, atmosphere and the record of life on Earth. Scientific methods of studying Earth history. Geologic time, dating methods, the stratigraphic record.  Organic evolution, the fossil record, and extinctions.
BIOL 116 - Biology for Science Majors I
First of a pair of courses that introduce students to the biological concepts necessary to continue into second-year biology. Covers evolutionary theory and its underlying genetic basis, basic cell biology, plant and animal nutrition, and energy acquisition. Credit will be granted for only BIOL 116/125 or BIOL 117/122.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions, limits. Covers applications and modelling: graphing and optimization.
EESC 201 - Optical Mineralogy and Petrology
Identification of common rock-forming minerals using the polarizing microscope. Use of minerals and rock textures as a means of determining the classification and petrogenesis of igneous and metamorphic rocks.
EESC 205 - Introduction to Hydrology
Principles of hydrology at site, watershed, and regional scales. Techniques of measurement and analysis. Emphasizes surface water hydrology of western North America.
EESC 213 - Introductory Forest Science and Management
Global forests, classification, silviculture, forest tenure systems, forest policy evolution, forest regulations, and the profession. Overview of forest disturbance impacts, eco-forestry, sustainable forest management, eco-certification, the role of information technologies and research.
EESC 222 - Geomorphology
Landform assemblages and processes of landscape evolution on Earth. Fundamental concepts, including system equilibrium, thresholds, complex response to external forces, and scale dependency, with application to mountains, rivers, coasts, and glaciated terrain. Laboratory exercises require field work in lab time. Required one-day, weekend trip.
GEOG 272 - Cartography and Remote Sensing
Cartographic skills and interpretation of remotely-sensed data for geographical applications. Themes include: history of cartography; map scale; projections; types of maps; map interpretation; map making; manipulating cartographic data; interpreting aerial photographs and satellite imagery; integrating maps, remotely sensed data, and geographic information systems.
EESC 309 - Global Biogeochemistry
Functional processes and reactions of our living planet. Cycles of materials and energy among the atmosphere, lithosphere, and terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems.  Case studies on the degradation of ecosystem function from anthropogenic alterations of natural cycles.
EESC 315 - Environmental Impact Assessment: Techniques and practice
Practical techniques and methods for environmental impact assessment. Technical approaches, evaluation and estimation tools, and project management skills used for environmental assessment work.
EESC 325 - Structural Geology
Description and classification of geologic structures. Stress, strain and their relationship to deformation processes. Mechanics of faulting, folding, and shear zone development. Interpretation of physical deformation processes and the resulting geologic structures.
EESC 342 - Hydrogeology
Introduction to the theory of groundwater flow; flow nets; regional groundwater resource evaluation; well hydraulics; role of groundwater in geologic processes.
EESC 380 - Fundamentals of Geographic Information Science I
Spatial data representation; raster and vector models; spatial database structure; coordinate reference frames and projections; spatial statistics; metadata and data standards; associated technologies and data sources. Laboratory exercises require ArcGIS.
EESC 413 - Analytical Methods in Hydrology
Application of advanced analytical methods to hydrological data for watershed or water resource planning and management. Frequency analysis, storm design, regionalization, flow routing, geographic information systems (GIS) application, time series analysis and modelling.
EESC 422 - Fluvial Geomorphology
Geomorphic forms and processes within and along streams and rivers; flow hydraulics; sediment transport and bedform mechanics; hydraulic geometry; channel and floodplain dynamics; sediment yield; river habitat and stream rehabilitation.
EESC 423 - Tracers of Natural Processes
Stable and radiogenic isotopes in the lithosphere, hydrosphere, atmosphere and biosphere.  Fractionation processes, dating methods. Selected topics in the use of isotopic tracers.
EESC 425 - Tectonics and Orogenesis
Large-scale Earth structure, tectonic environments, Archean geology and the initiation of plate tectonics. Analytical toolsets. Orogenesis within the Canadian Cordillera, the Andes, the Alps, and the Himalaya.
EESC 444 - Dynamic Modelling of Human-Environment Systems
Design and use of dynamic models of complex systems; spatial modelling of the environment; agent- and individual-based models; applications to biodiversity conservation, environmental management, land use change and natural resource management.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Aerial view of UBC's Okanagan campus
Life at UBC's Okanagan campus
On UBC’s Okanagan campus, you'll gain all the benefits of attending a globally respected university while studying in a close-knit learning community. Modern on-campus residences are close to academic supports, and surrounded by hiking and biking trails, sandy beaches, and vast lakes. Take part in on-campus events, volunteer in the community, or explore the outdoors.
Find out more
Your future
You’ll graduate with a broad foundation in earth and environmental sciences and be well positioned to access multiple career paths. As an Earth and Environmental Sciences graduate, you could work for:
Mineral exploration and resource extraction companies
Environmental and geotechnical consulting firms
Provincial and federal geological surveys
Provincial and federal ministries that oversee environment, habitat, and land use
Government research laboratories
Universities and colleges
Program graduates
Hydrogeology Consultant, BGC Engineering Inc.
President and CEO, HEG Exploration Services Inc.
Project Manager, Golder Associates
Section Head, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
UBC stories
"One year after graduation, I am now working full time for MiEnergy, a renewable energy company in Saskatoon where I have a dynamic role that includes installation, communications and marketing, as well as project coordination."
Jenna Gall, Earth and Environmental Sciences
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics is strongly recommended
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life
Read admissions blog post
Meet Cecilia, an Environmental Science and Human Geography student from Peru
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC