Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/ecology-evolution-conservation-biology/

Ecology, Evolution, and Conservation Biology
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Investigate biodiversity from ecological and evolutionary perspectives. Learn practical approaches and tools for conserving species and ecosystems. You’ll develop an understanding of core biology concepts and principles, and gain practical experience in the laboratory, field, and classroom, where you’ll develop computer and communication skills.
Why this program?
Work closely with faculty members who supervise independent research.
Participate in lab-based or field research at study sites in diverse forests, grasslands, lakes and rivers, and agroecosystems.
Participate in projects ranging from quantifying biodiversity in soils, to modelling impacts of human activity on wildlife, to the foraging behaviour of wild predators.
Join the local student chapter of The Wildlife Society to take advantage of increased networking, career development, and learning opportunities.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Ecology, evolution and conservation biology is an interdisciplinary field that draws on natural history, behavior, genetics, mathematical, and environmental sciences. It is a College of Applied Biology accredited program.
By studying ecology, you master the tools needed to understand natural systems and improve the impact human activity has on the natural world. Studying evolutionary biology provides a focus on the origin and maintenance of biodiversity, an understanding of the adaptive processes that explain reproductive tactics and animal behaviour and the tools required for investigating ongoing evolutionary processes in natural systems. Studying conservation biology gives you practical tools and approaches for protecting species and ecosystems.
In EECB undergraduate studies at UBC Okanagan, you can complete a Bachelor of Science (BSc) in ecology, evolution and conservation biology. The BSc program offers a major and honours in ecology, evolution and conservation biology.
Experiential learning and research
This program offers a wide variety of foundational and advanced courses that explore topics ranging from the fundamental processes underlying adaptive evolution, speciation, and extinction to techniques used by wildlife ecologists.
The Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science also supports student research through the Undergraduate Research Awards, which allow students to carry out their own projects under the supervision of world-class researchers over the summer months. There are also a number of other awards which provide opportunities for students to work with professors on their research.
You also have the opportunity to take your studies abroad with the Go Global program and the Exchange and Research Abroad program, or participate in original research – either your own or a professor’s in your field.
Irving K. Barber School Faculty of Science Undergraduate Research Awards
Biology Course Union
Campus features
UBC’s Okanagan campus is home to a number of world-class research facilities, including the Okanagan Institute for Biodiversity, Resilience and Ecosystem Services (BRAES). BRAES is a consortium of UBC faculty members and students, collaborators and partner organizations working together to advance research and teaching in conservation and ecology.
Okanagan Institute for Biodiversity, Resilience, and Ecosystem Services
The Centre for Microbiome and Inflammatory Research
Send details
Why this program?
Work closely with faculty members who supervise independent research.
Participate in lab-based or field research at study sites in diverse forests, grasslands, lakes and rivers, and agroecosystems.
Participate in projects ranging from quantifying biodiversity in soils, to modelling impacts of human activity on wildlife, to the foraging behaviour of wild predators.
Join the local student chapter of The Wildlife Society to take advantage of increased networking, career development, and learning opportunities.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
BIOL 116 - Biology for Science Majors I
First of a pair of courses that introduce students to the biological concepts necessary to continue into second-year biology. Covers evolutionary theory and its underlying genetic basis, basic cell biology, plant and animal nutrition, and energy acquisition. Credit will be granted for only BIOL 116/125 or BIOL 117/122.
BIOL 125 - Biology for Science Majors II
Continuation of BIOL 116. Introduction to biological concepts necessary for second-year biology. Physiology of reproduction, gas exchange, inter-organ transport, inter-organ coordination in plants and animals, and excretion and movement in animals. Ecosystem, population, community, and behavioural ecology are discussed.
CHEM 111 - Principles of Chemistry I
Stoichiometry, atomic and molecular structure, chemical periodicity, gases, liquids, solids, and solutions. Not open to students with Chemistry 12.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions, limits. Covers applications and modelling: graphing and optimization.
BIOL 265 - Principles of Genetics
Mendelian genetics, gene expression, recombination, mutation, evolution, and molecular techniques. Examples will be drawn from both eukaryotic and prokaryotic systems.
BIOL 201 - Introduction to Evolution and Ecology
Fundamental processes underlying adaptive evolution, speciation, and extinction. Methods used to reconstruct the evolutionary histories of, and relationships among, groups of organisms. Factors determining the distribution and abundance of organisms. Competition, predation, and an exploration of processes that promote species coexistence and lead to the maintenance of species diversity.
BIOL 202 - Introduction to Biostatistics
Introduction to statistics, with emphasis on the application of commonly applied parametric and non-parametric statistical methods in the biological sciences. Use of computer software to manage data, conduct statistical analyses, and report findings in publishable formats.
BIOL 265 - Principles of Genetics
Mendelian genetics, gene expression, recombination, mutation, evolution, and molecular techniques. Examples will be drawn from both eukaryotic and prokaryotic systems.
CHEM 203 - Introduction to Organic Chemistry
Structure, bonding, and physical properties of aliphatic and aromatic compounds; conformational analysis, stereochemistry, and NMR spectroscopy; substitution and elimination reactions of alkyl halides; ethers, epoxides, aldehydes, ketones. Credit will not be granted for only one of CHEM 203 or CHEM 213.
BIOL 301 - Evolutionary Principles and Methods
An exploration of the field of Evolutionary Biology as an ongoing scientific endeavour. Current research methodology and development of concepts relating to the study of evolutionary change, adaptation, and the history of life will be examined.
BIOL 308 - Population Biology
Introduction to the study of plant and animal populations. Demography, single species growth, competition, predation, and natural selection.
BIOL 311 - Biochemistry I
Structure and function of proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleic acids. Principles of thermodynamics and enzyme reaction mechanisms. Enzyme kinetics. Credit will only be granted for one of BIOL 311 or BIOC 304.
BIOL 354 - Cell Physiology
The cell is the fundamental unit of life. This course delineates a number of shared biological processes conducted at the cellular level and similar across a wide range of organisms (e.g., acquisition of usable energy, energy storage, transport processes, irritability, and contractability).
GEOG 307 - Advanced Biogeography
Present distribution and diversity of plants and animals; factors underlying the development of modern biogeographic realms; dispersal, colonization, and invasion; prehistoric and modern evolution and extinction; biodiversity; island biogeography; conservation biogeography.
BIOL 459 - Behavioural Ecology
Ecological and evolutionary basis for behaviour, the role of behaviour in enabling an organism to adapt to its environment. Topics include optimization and game theoretic approaches, foraging, sociality, mating, and parental care. Laboratory provides opportunities to explore concepts covered in lecture.
BIOL 460 - Population Genetics
Concepts in empirical and theoretical population genetics. Primary processes shaping genetic variation within and among populations. Methodologies for measuring genetic variation in nature, and practical applications of population genetic principles to genomics, molecular evolution, human evolution, and conservation biology.
BIOL 401 - Spatial Ecology
Spatial patterns in ecology, exploring ways to describe variation and mechanisms that give rise to patterns. Dispersal, metapopulation and source-sink dynamics, connectivity and fragmentation, heterogeneity, disturbance, edges, and dynamics of geographical ranges.
BIOL 422 - Conservation Biology
Scientific basis of conservation biology. Analysis of demographic data, population models, and extinction risks. Examine complex habitat, landscape, genetic, and trophic interactions that affect populations. Conservation approaches including habitat planning, reserve design, surrogacy, and policy.
BIOL 468 - Molecular Approaches in Ecology and Evolution
Techniques for collecting molecular and population genetic data. Applications in ecology, evolution, and conservation. Characteristics of molecular markers, associated analytical approaches, emerging genomic technologies, and case studies.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
UBC's Okanagan campus
Life at UBC's Okanagan campus
UBC's Okanagan campus is renowned for its research opportunities and access to professors. On a tight-knit campus like the Okanagan’s, you’ll be able to work closely with award-winning faculty and make meaningful connections with your peers. You’ll also have access to clubs like the Biology Course Union.
Find out more
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics is strongly recommended
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Nagi, a Biology major and Collegia assistant on UBC's Okanagan campus
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC