Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/economics-okanagan-ba/

Economics (BA)
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Economics will change the way you look at the world, increase your understanding of fundamental human behaviour, and improve your reasoning, problem solving, and decision-making abilities. You’ll take courses like “Poverty and Inequality,” “Economics of Technological Change,” and “Economics of Public Choice.”
This program is also offered at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Find out more
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Economics is the study of how people, institutions, and nations manage resources such as time, money, and materials. In this program, you will increase your skills in deductive reasoning, abstract and critical thinking, and your understanding of the historical, cultural, and social context of economic institutions, policies, and events. Economists study how behaviour reflects and responds to incentives.
Experiential learning and research
You have the opportunity to participate in the annual Roger Watts Advocacy Debate as part of a student team, with prizes of $1,000 for the first-place finishers and $500 for the runners-up.
In your coursework, you have abundant research opportunities, including learning the techniques of empirical economic research, and completing independent readings and research as part of a directed studies course. The Irving K. Barber Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences holds an annual undergraduate research conference on UBC’s Okanagan campus to showcase these student research projects.
Roger Watts Advocacy Debate
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences Undergraduate Research Awards
What can you do with this major after graduation?
Your Economics (BA) career options
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
ECON 101 - Principles of Microeconomics
Elements of theory and Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of markets and market behaviour, prices and costs, exchange and trade, competition and monopoly, distribution of income.
ECON 102 - Principles of Macroeconomics
Elements of theory and Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of growth and business cycles, national income accounting, interest and exchange rates, money and banking, the balance of trade.
ECON 112 - Introduction to the Canadian Economy
Basic guide to economics. Covers a broad range of topics, emphasizing an institutional rather than theoretical approach. This course is often followed by ECON 122.
ECON 122 - Introduction to Economic History and Thought
Evolution of economic society and its problems, with special attention to the theories of the great economic philosophers past and present.
ECON 260 - Poverty and Inequality
Economic analysis of poverty and inequality in Canada and other countries. Measurement and definition of poverty and inequality; demographic analysis of poverty and inequality, and distribution by age, sex, and region in Canada. Public policy issues of welfare, workfare, and social assistance. No economics background needed.
ECON 221 - Introduction to Strategic Thinking
Game theory with applications drawn from many disciplines and the principles of strategic interactions.
ECON 232 - History of Economic Thought
Evolution of economic thinking from ancient to present times. The Greek, Islamic, and Medieval scholars; the Physiocrats, Adam Smith, Malthus, Bentham, Ricardo, Mill, Marx, Keynes, and other major economic thinkers. Development of fundamental economic ideas and conflicting perspectives are studied within their social and economic context.
ECON 257 - Topics in International Economic Policy
Selected topics in international trade and international finance. Emphasis is on current policy issues with examples drawn from experiences in Canada, other industrialized nations, and developing economies.
ECON 261 - Economics of Developing Countries
Introduction to economic conditions in less developed countries. What constitutes underdevelopment; theories of why some countries are less developed than others. Internal and external economic policies useful in changing the economic performance of these countries. No economics background needed.
ECON 339 - Economics of Technological Change
Application of economic analysis to technological change; impact of technological change on the growth and distribution of income; economic influences on the invention and diffusion of technology; interaction between technology, work, skills, and education; public policy toward technological change.
ECON 390 - Economics of Public Choice
Economic methodology as applied to the study of the political market. Topics may include voting, democracy, bureaucracy, rent seeking, redistribution, and economics of constitutions.
ECON 371 - Economics of the Environment
Economic analysis applied to various environmental issues, including sustainable development, quality of life, and environmental impacts of specific industrial and consumption activities. The design and implementation of government policies. Global environmental effects of human economic activity.
ECON 332 - Canadian Economy to 1929
Historical development of Canadian economy and major Canadian economic policy issues from early colonial times to the onset of the Great Depression. Native economies; staples trades; economics of Confederation; national policy; Western settlement; relative development of Canadian regional economies; monetary, capital, and labour market development.
ECON 339 - Economics of Technological Change
Application of economic analysis to technological change; impact of technological change on the growth and distribution of income; economic influences on the invention and diffusion of technology; interaction between technology, work, skills, and education; public policy toward technological change.
ECON 452 - Urban Economics
Economic analysis of urban economies and urban problems. Agglomeration economies, public goods, taxation, local political economy, housing, and development.
ECON 491 - Advanced Topics in Economics
Advanced examination of selected topics in current economic theory and/or policy.  Topics vary each time the course is offered.
ECON 427 - Econometrics
Advanced treatment of estimation, inference, and econometric problems and techniques with focus on both theoretical and applied methods and with application to a variety of economic models.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet André, an Economics major who used Jump Start as a springboard to get involved
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC