Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/economics-vancouver/

Economics
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Gain a deep understanding of the economy and examine the social, cross-cultural, and ethical dimensions of economic decision-making. You’ll learn how to choose and apply appropriate quantitative methods to a range of economic issues, and effectively communicate complex economic issues. Your studies will include courses such as “Introduction to Game Theory and Applications” and “Economics of Renewable Resources.”
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Economics offers expertise in a variety of fields including industrial organization, labour, economic measurement, economic history, macroeconomics, public policy, and international trade and finance development, as well as resource, health, and transitional economics. You may select a Minor, Major, or Honours program in Economics, as well as Combined Major programs in Economics and Political Science, Economics and Philosophy, Economics and Statistics, or Economics and Mathematics.
Campus features
The Vancouver School of Economics at UBC is ranked top in Canada, and in the top 20 such departments in the world. UBC economics alumnus, Robert Mundell won the 1999 Nobel Prize for Economics, following his groundbreaking analysis of exchange rates and monetary policy.
Related links
Vancouver School of Economics
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
ECON 101 - Principles of Microeconomics
Elements of theory and of Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of markets and market behaviour, prices and costs, exchange and trade, competition and monopoly, distribution of income.
ECON 102 - Principles of Macroeconomics
Elements of theory and of Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of growth and business cycles, national income accounting, interest and exchange rates, money and banking, the balance of trade.
MATH 104 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Commerce and Social Sciences
Derivatives and rates of change, exponential and trigonometric functions, Newton's method, Taylor polynomials, maxima and minima, and graphing.
ECON 234 - Wealth and Poverty of Nations
Historical approaches to long-run economic growth; international comparisons of income growth and inequality; colonialism; evolution of world capital markets; human migrations; rise of world trading empires; instability in the international economy.   May not be taken for credit by students with fourth-year standing.
ECON 204 - Intermediate Microeconomic Analysis
Mathematical and graphical models of individual, household, and firm behavior with applications to issues in international economics. Registration restricted to students in the Bachelor of International Economics Program.
ECON 210 - Microeconomic Policy
A survey of policy issues, such as regulation, taxation, environmental and resource policy, health care, education and income distribution.  May not be taken for credit by students with fourth-year standing.
ECON 255 - Understanding Globalization
Social and economic implications for both rich and poor countries of lowered barriers to the international flows of information, capital, labour and goods.  May not be taken for credit by students with fourth-year standing.
ECON 226 - Making Sense of Economic Data
Formulation of a testable hypothesis, identification of relevant data, use of appropriate statistical tools.  May not be taken for credit by students with fourth-year standing in ECON or COMM. Not available for credit to students already having credit for either of ECON 325 or ECON 326 (or equivalent).
ECON 301 - Intermediate Microeconomic Analysis I
Consumer behaviour, producer theory, exchange, monopoly, oligopoly, externalities, public goods, general equilibrium and welfare economics.
ECON 325 - Introduction to Empirical Economics
Essentials of probability and statistics for applied work in economics. Topics include descriptive statistics, probability, estimation, hypothesis testing, and analysis of variance.
ECON 326 - Methods of Empirical Research in Economics
Techniques of empirical economic research. Topics include simple and multiple regression, time series analysis, and simultaneous equation estimation. Students will be required to undertake applied work.
ECON 335 - Fertility, Families and Human Migration
Traditional fertility and mortality patterns, demographic transition, catastrophes, well-being and nutrition, international and internal migration, epidemics and growth spurts.
ECON 370 - Benefit-Cost Analysis and the Economics of Project Evaluation
Techniques and problems in benefit-cost analysis of public projects. Examination of alternative approaches to public decision-making such as cost-effectiveness analysis and multiple-objective frameworks. Case studies of projects in the areas of natural resources, the environment, human resources, public services, and transportation.
ECON 490 - Seminar in Applied Economics
Selected problems and issues in the theory and practice of Economics. Each section will focus on a different field. Restricted to Economics Majors, and Combined Majors in Economics their final academic session.
ECON 421 - Introduction to Game Theory and Applications
Principles of rational behaviour in strategic situations and various notions of equilibrium useful in predicting outcomes. Applications from economics, business, politics, law and biology.
ECON 472 - Economics of Renewable Resources
Application of economic analysis to the management of renewable resources. Special attention is given to criteria for the optimal use of depleting resources such as forests and water. Other topics include public policy with regard to environmental quality, conservation, and outdoor recreation.
ECON 493 - Advanced Empirical Methods for International Economics
Econometric methodologies necessary to conduct applied research, including time series analysis and panel data methods; review of empirical work in international economics.  Registration restricted to students in the Bachelor of International Economics Program.
ECON 482 - The Economic Consequences of Religion
Analysis of the economic aspects of religious behaviour, the structure of religious organizations, the effects of competition in the religious marketplace, the economic benefits of religion, and some of the ill-effects of religion (such as religious strife and terrorism).
Your future
Your career opportunities will vary widely across a range of fields including finance, insurance, business, public policy and administration, statistics, mathematics, law, education, and others.
There are many career paths that can combine your academics, skills, and experience with your different interests, including:
Economic analyst
Economic development officer
Financial auditor
Financial controller
Inventory analyst
Investment analyst
Labour policy analyst
Labour relations officer
Pollster
Real estate development
Social policy advisor
Careers with Economics
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life on Snapchat
Read admissions blog post
Meet Logan, an entrepreneurial Economics major, scholarship winner, and recent Rhodes Scholar
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC