Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/economics-okanagan-bsc/

Economics (BSc)
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Study how people, institutions, and nations create and manage scarce resources, make choices by comparing costs and benefits, and act purposefully on those choices. You’ll take courses like “Intermediate Microeconomic Analysis,” “Introduction to Empirical Economics,” and “Competitiveness in the International Economy.”
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The BSc Major in economics emphasizes the mathematical and quantitative nature of modern economic inquiry that is increasingly required for progress on to graduate studies in economics or to careers in quantitative economic and financial analysis in the public and private sectors. The major combines courses in Economics, Mathematics and Statistics along with other Arts and Sciences requirements and electives.
Experiential learning and research
You have the opportunity to participate in the annual Roger Watts Advocacy Debate as part of a student team, with prizes of $1,000 for the first-place finishers and $500 for the runners-up. In your coursework, you have abundant research opportunities, including learning the techniques of empirical economic research, and completing independent readings and research as part of a directed studies course. The Irving K. Barber Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences holds an annual undergraduate research conference on UBC’s Okanagan campus to showcase these student research projects.
Roger Watts Advocacy Debate
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences Undergraduate Research Awards
What can you do with this major after graduation?
Your Economics (BSc) career options
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
ECON 101 - Principles of Microeconomics
Elements of theory and Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of markets and market behaviour, prices and costs, exchange and trade, competition and monopoly, distribution of income.
ECON 102 - Principles of Macroeconomics
Elements of theory and Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of growth and business cycles, national income accounting, interest and exchange rates, money and banking, the balance of trade.
ECON 112 - Introduction to the Canadian Economy
Basic guide to economics. Covers a broad range of topics, emphasizing an institutional rather than theoretical approach. This course is often followed by ECON 122.
ECON 122 - Introduction to Economic History and Thought
Evolution of economic society and its problems, with special attention to the theories of the great economic philosophers past and present.
ECON 204 - Intermediate Microeconomic Analysis
Microtheory course at the post-principles level. Analysis of consumer behaviour, production, exchange, equilibrium of the firm under varying market structures, factor markets, economic efficiency, and welfare.
ECON 205 - Intermediate Macroeconomic Analysis
Macrotheory course at the post-principles level. Income and employment theory, monetary and fiscal policies, the impact of international trade and finance on the domestic economy, economic growth and fluctuations.
ECON 257 - Topics in International Economic Policy
Selected topics in international trade and international finance. Emphasis is on current policy issues with examples drawn from experiences in Canada, other industrialized nations, and developing economies.
ECON 295 - Managerial Economics
Economic foundations of managerial decision-making. Demand theory, cost and production, market structure, competitive strategy, organization of the firm, welfare-economic foundations of business regulation.
ECON 297 - Economics of Sports
Application of economic analysis to sports.
ECON 327 - Introduction to Empirical Economics
The essentials of probability and statistics for applied work in economics. Topics include descriptive statistics, probability, estimation, hypothesis testing, and analysis of variance.
ECON 358 - Competitiveness in the International Economy
Emphasis on the major economies in North America, Europe, and East Asia. Determinants of competitiveness in nations and corporations, industrial and strategic trade policies of governments, importance of high-technology industries, role of multinational corporations.
ECON 308 - Intermediate Microeconomics II
Factor markets, general equilibrium, uncertainty and information, contract theory, externalities, public goods, and welfare.
ECON 320 - Introduction to Mathematical Economics
Application of single and multivariable calculus to economics. Includes comparative static analysis of household and firm behaviour as well as simple dynamic models.
ECON 358 - Competitiveness in the International Economy
Emphasis on the major economies in North America, Europe, and East Asia. Determinants of competitiveness in nations and corporations, industrial and strategic trade policies of governments, importance of high-technology industries, role of multinational corporations.
ECON 401 - Applied Microeconomic Analysis
Advanced analysis of consumer theory, market supply and demand, competition, general equilibrium, the theory of the firm, and the economics of information and uncertainty.
ECON 491 - Advanced Topics in Economics
Advanced examination of selected topics in current economic theory and/or policy.  Topics vary each time the course is offered.
ECON 427 - Econometrics
Advanced treatment of estimation, inference, and econometric problems and techniques with focus on both theoretical and applied methods and with application to a variety of economic models.
ECON 402 - Applied Macroeconomic Analysis
Advanced treatment of the core topics in macroeconomics such as the business cycle, inflation, unemployment, growth, alternative exchange rate regimes, and fiscal and monetary policy.
ECON 409 - Economic Growth Theory
Advanced topics in economic growth theory and their applications to Real Business Cycle theory.  Topics include exogenous and endogenous growth theory, Neoclassical and New Classical growth theory.  Credits will be granted for only one of ECON 409 or ECON 491 when the subject matter is of the same nature.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics is strongly recommended
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Meet Abhinav, an Economics and International Relations student from India
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC