Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/engineering-physics/

Engineering Physics
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Do you want to be an inventor? A research engineer? A technology entrepreneur? Engineering Physics encourages creativity, challenges intellects, and celebrates big-picture thinking. You’ll build a solid foundation in applied physics and a blend of electrical and mechanical engineering, while gaining extensive engineering design experience.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Applied Science (Engineering)
Degree:
Bachelor of Applied Science (Engineering)
Length
5 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Engineering Physics is one of the most competitive and academically challenging undergraduate programs at UBC. With a strong foundation of academic courses, project courses, and co-op work experience, the five-year Engineering Physics program provides you with the skills and experience needed to develop new technology and interdisciplinary engineering projects. You will take high-level Math and Physics courses, as well as courses in Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering. In second year, you will take courses in each of these areas and choose Electrical, Mechanical, or Mechatronics as your specialty. The academic program is normally supplemented with technical experience, and protected time for technical work terms is built into the curriculum.
Campus features
The UBC Sustainability Solutions Applied Physics Laboratory has unique research projects, such as the UBC Solar Canopy group, aiming to explore the potential of electromagnetics, for practical environmentally aware solutions.
UBC Sustainability Solutions Applied Physics Laboratory
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
APSC 100 - Introduction to Engineering I
An introduction to the engineering profession including: roles and responsibilities of the engineer, the engineering disciplines, sustainability, an introduction to the engineering design process, introduction and application of the relevant foundational scientific principles, prototyping, engineering graphics, technical communication, and engineering ethics.
CHEM 154 - Chemistry for Engineering
Chemical bonding, properties of matter. Chemical thermodynamics with applications to phase equilibria, aqueous equilibria and electrochemistry. Processes at surfaces.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
PHYS 157 - Introductory Physics for Engineers I
Heat, thermodynamics, oscillations, waves, and sound.
PHYS 170 - Mechanics I
Statics of particles, equilibrium or rigid bodies, rigid body statics and internal forces, trusses; kinematics: rectilinear motion; dynamics:  Newton's second law, friction, impulse, momentum, work and energy.
CPEN 221 - Principles of Software Construction
Design, implementation, reasoning about software systems: abstraction and specification of software, testing, verification, abstract data types, object-oriented design, type hierarchies, concurrent software design.
ELEC 204 - Linear Circuits
Basic concepts and analysis techniques in the context of electric and electronic circuits including Bode plots and the Laplace transform. Treatment of RLC circuits, phasors, op-amps. Introduction to nonlinear circuit elements, diodes, BJT, FET circuits.
ENPH 257 - Heat and Thermodynamics
Thermometry, thermal properties of matter; heat transfer by conduction; convection and radiation; kinetic theory of gases and gas laws; heat engines; refrigeration; change of state; first and second laws of thermodynamics.
ENPH 259 - Experimental Techniques
Basic experimental techniques in acquisition, analysis, and presentation and communication of data and technical results.
MECH 260 - Introduction to Mechanics of Materials
Statically determinate frames and trusses; normal and shear stresses and strains; shear force and bending moment diagrams; theory of beam bending, torsion of circular rods; transformation of stress and strain in two and three dimensions, Mohr's circle; yield and ultimate failure criteria.
CPEN 312 - Digital Systems and Microcomputers
Data representation in digital computers; boolean algebra; the design and optimization and implementation of combinatorial and sequential circuits; modern digital circuit technologies; memory and programmable logic devices; organization and operation of microcomputers; data/address bus organization; input-output interfacing.
MECH 360 - Mechanics of Materials
Beam deflections, singularity functions; use of tabulated solutions; column buckling; Castigliano's theorem, statically indeterminate beams, bending of beams with asymmetric cross-sections, shear centre; principal stresses and stress invariants in three dimensions.
PHYS 301 - Electricity and Magnetism
Maxwell's equations and their applications, electrical fields and potentials of static charge distributions, current, fields of moving charges, magnetic fields, electromagnetic induction.
APSC 278 - Engineering Materials
Atomic bonding; crystal structures and imperfections; properties of metals, ceramics, polymers, wood, concrete and fibre composite materials; selection of materials; corrosion; mechanical testing and heat treatment.
ELEC 301 - Electronic Circuits
Analysis and design of electronic circuits; biasing of and small-signal models for transistors; frequency response of amplifiers; feedback and stability aspects of amplifier design; OP-AMPs; active filters; oscillators; IC specification and selection. Credit will only be given for one of EECE 356, ELEC 301, and EECE 374.
ENPH 459 - Engineering Physics Project I
Project planning, management and reporting. This course involves writing a project proposal, carrying out an open-ended Engineering project, and reporting the results both orally and in writing.
MATH 400 - Applied Partial Differential Equations
Separation of variables, first order equations, Sturm-Liouville theory, integral transform methods.
MECH 466 - Automatic Control
Process and system characteristics; transient response; the closed loop; block diagrams and transfer functions; control actions; stability; Nyquist diagrams; Bode diagrams; root locus methods; frequency response; system compensation; nonlinear control systems; digital computer control. Laboratory experiments to support the lecture content. Credit cannot be obtained for both MECH 466 and MECH 467.
APSC 450 - Professional Engineering Practice
Legislation affecting the practice of engineering; ethical principles and responsibilities. Management of engineering enterprises; labour relations, safety and environmental legislation. Restricted to engineering undergraduate students in the final year of their program.
ENPH 479 - Engineering Physics Project II
Projects designed to give students research development and design experience. Projects are provided by research faculty in Science and Engineering and from local industry.
MATH 405 - Numerical Methods for Differential Equations
Interpolation, numerical integration, numerical solution of ordinary and partial differential equations. Practical computational methods emphasized and basic theory developed through simple models. See Faculty of Science credit exclusion list: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
PHYS 403 - Statistical Mechanics
Principles and applications of  statistical mechanics. Ideal gases, degenerate Fermi gases, Bose-Einstein condensation, black body radiation, fluctuations and phase transitions.
ELEC 343 - Electromechanics
Electromechanical energy conversion; linear actuators; torque/speed of rotating devices; reluctance, stepper, permanent-magnet, induction, brushless-DC motors and DC motors; actuator/motor drive circuits/controllers.
Your future
You career opportunities will vary widely across a range of fields including nuclear and particle physics, micro and nanotechnology, semiconductors and electronics, computer technologies, healthcare, fibre optics and laser design, clean energy, and applied research and development, and others.
Careers with Engineering Physics
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Applied Science (Engineering)
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
IB Chemistry
IB Physics
Academically strong candidates missing either IB Chemistry or IB Physics may be evaluated on a case-by-case basis
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Cognitive Systems as a Bachelor of Science on the Vancouver campus
This multi-disciplinary program involves Computer Science, Linguistics, Philosophy, and Psychology, and provides you with a grounding in the principles and techniques used by intelligent systems to interact with the world around them.
Visit page
Computer Engineering on the Vancouver campus
Study electrical and computer engineering while engaging in laboratory work and engineering design.
Visit page
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life on Snapchat
Read admissions blog post
Meet Milind, an Electrical Engineering student who went from UBC undergrad to PhD candidate at Cambridge
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC