Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/english-vancouver/

English
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Choose to major in English Literature, English Language, or Language and Literature. As an English student, you'll study the history and structure of English, rhetoric and discourse, literary studies, and much more.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Why this program?
Small class sizes (fewer than 50 students per class)
Capstone seminars for all majors
Dozens of electives to choose from, including Shakespeare Now, Medieval Tolkien, Fantasy Fiction, Victorian Fairy Tales, Literary Forgeries, and more
Award-winning faculty, including Killam Teaching Prize winners, Royal Society of Canada members, University Research Chairs, and Canada Research Chairs
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
As an English major, you’ll study literature written in English from around the world – from the earliest medieval riddles to contemporary slam poetry. You’ll also have the opportunity to study the English language: its roots, its patterns, and its uses in politics and social media. If you’re an English major or honours student, you’ll encounter the past and present of imaginative literature and understand how our language makes meaning. You’ll learn to read intelligently, to write lucidly, to imagine and to understand cultures, to work in teams, to ask good questions, and to learn independently.
Experiential learning and research
As an English student, you can choose to take your learning in any number of directions:
Seminars: Attend student-centred seminars with opportunities for independent research.
Student-directed seminars: Take the seminar experience one step further and design your own course!
Honours thesis: Write an undergraduate thesis, working one-on-one with a professor.
Community engagement courses: Gain real-world experience with experiential learning opportunities in First Nations communities, literary collectives, local high schools, and more.
Book history courses: Learn how to use a printing press in a book history course.
Campus features
As an English student on UBC’s Vancouver campus, you’ll have access to key on-campus resources, including:
Buchanan Tower lounges and offices
UBC Library’s
Rare Books and Special Collections
UBC Press
, Canada’s pre-eminent social science publisher
The Ubyssey
, UBC’s student newspaper
The Garden Statuary
, UBC’s undergraduate English journal
Send details
Why this program?
Small class sizes (fewer than 50 students per class)
Capstone seminars for all majors
Dozens of electives to choose from, including Shakespeare Now, Medieval Tolkien, Fantasy Fiction, Victorian Fairy Tales, Literary Forgeries, and more
Award-winning faculty, including Killam Teaching Prize winners, Royal Society of Canada members, University Research Chairs, and Canada Research Chairs
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
ENGL 120 - Literature and Criticism
Enriched study of selected works of literature from a number of critical perspectives. Open to students with a BC-equivalent mark of "A" (86%) in English 12 or "B+" (80%) in English Literature 12. Essays are required.
ENGL 110 - Approaches to Literature
Study of selected examples of poetry, fiction, and drama. Essays are required.
ENGL 140 - Challenging Language Myths
Critical consideration of a broad range of commonly held beliefs about language and its relation to the brain and cognition, learning, society, change and evolution. Note: This is an elective course that does not fulfill writing requirements in any faculty or the literature requirement in the Faculty of Arts.
ENGL 100 - Reading and Writing about Literature
A writing-intensive introduction to the disciplines of literary studies through the exploration of texts in their critical and theoretical contexts. Fulfils the first-year component of the Faculty of Arts Writing and Research Requirement. Open only to students in the Faculty of Arts. Recommended for students intending to become English majors. Essays are required.
ENGL 220 - Literature in English to the 18th Century
A survey of prose, poetry and drama to the 18th Century.
ENGL 223 - Literature in the United States
The major types of American writing: fiction, poetry, drama and non-fictional prose.
ENGL 224 - World Literature in English
English literature produced outside Britain and North America.
ENGL 231 - Introduction to Indigenous Literatures
A study of cultural expression in contemporary indigenous contexts.
ENGL 232 - Approaches to Media Studies
Approaches to the study of media: philosophical; technological; cultural; theoretical.
ENGL 309 - Rhetoric of Science, Technology, and Medicine
Exploration of the persuasive dimension of discourse practices in science, technology, and medicine.
ENGL 328 - Metaphor, Language and Thought
Exploration of the concepts underlying figurative language (in vocabulary as well as in grammar), using data from both colloquial and literary language.
ENGL 330 - The Structure of Modern English: Sounds and Words
An introduction to phonology, morphology, and lexical semantics.
ENGL 348 - Shakespeare and the Renaissance
Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
ENGL 402 - Studies in Poetry
Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
ENGL 458 - Canadian Environmental Writing
Offers advanced study of ecocritical theory and its application to Canadian literature, including Indigenous authors.
ENGL 419 - History of the Book
ENGL 418 - Studies in European Literature
Please see the Department website for further information on topics offered in the current session.
ENGL 468 - Children's Literature
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
UBC Buchanan Buildings
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
As an English student on UBC's Vancouver campus, you'll be part of one of the broadest, deepest, most personal, and most flexible programs at UBC, with dozens of electives and pathways and small-class options. You'll gain a deep understanding of the literature of the English-speaking world in historical and contemporary perspectives.
Find out more
Your future
As an English graduate, you’ll be culturally literate, imaginative, well read, articulate, and able to confidently communicate, analyze, synthesize, and create. UBC’s English graduates go on to find jobs in secondary and post-secondary education, journalism, new media, technology, advertising, library sciences, government, politics, law, business, and not-for-profits. Some start their own businesses. Some run for elected office. The sky’s the limit!
Program graduates
Head, Rare Books and Special Collections, Irving K. Barber Learning Centre, UBC
Senior Designer, Next Devices and Experiences, Microsoft
Director, Partnerships and Partner Relations, WE
Vancouver Bureau Chief, National News, CTV
Copy Director, Aritzia
Senior Communications and Reporting Specialist, Teck Resources
Senior Communications Manager, Doctors of British Columbia
Executive Director, Office of the President, Simon Fraser University
Vice President, Global Brand Marketing, Jack Morton Worldwide
View larger image
Your future in English
Your future in English
UBC stories
"My undergraduate career at UBC was a wonderful preparation for graduate school. I was able to walk into an actual graduate seminar without being intimidated by the idea of leading a discussion or presenting my ideas to a small, yet discerning, group of students and professors."
Stephanie McGee, English
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Al, a lover of books and bacteria who double majored in English Literature and Microbiology
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC