Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/engineering-environmental/

Environmental Engineering
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Learn how science and engineering combine to preserve our natural environment. The Environmental Engineering degree at UBC will teach you how to address the issues surrounding waste treatment, reuse, and recycling, as well as how to mitigate air and water pollution using innovative design and engineering practices.
Why this program?
Learn how to work closely with corporations, law-makers, and others to improve environmental sustainability
Prepare for a career that is in demand by government agencies, manufacturing plants, agriculture, and resource industries across the world
Take classes in UBC's Departments of Chemical and Biological Engineering and Civil Engineering, which are among the top-ranked schools internationally
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Applied Science (Engineering)
Degree:
Bachelor of Applied Science (Engineering)
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Environmental Engineering teaches you to tackle engineering problems to maintain and improve ecosystem health. You’ll learn how to address the issues surrounding waste treatment, reuse, and recycling, as well as how to mitigate air and water pollution and clean up contaminated sites.
As you explore how to better the environment, you’ll discover how to fix problems at the small scale – such as site-specific concerns and regional regulations – and the global scale, including modelling the future environmental impacts that will inform government policy. The program will help you understand policy development and implementation, engineering design, construction and deconstruction, and more.
The Environmental Engineering program combines classroom interactions with team-based projects and hands-on learning in laboratories. During your senior years of study, you’ll partner with communities on critical projects to expand your learning experiences. You’ll also take design courses each year to help you apply your knowledge and prepare you to become a professional environmental engineer.
Experiential learning
During your degree, you’ll gain valuable fieldwork experiences by working together with local municipalities. You will also have the chance to learn more about UBC’s world-class sustainable infrastructure, and use the campus as a living lab. There is also the option to take a co-op placement where you can gain paid, full-time experience in a variety of work settings and begin building a professional network before graduation.
Send details
Why this program?
Learn how to work closely with corporations, law-makers, and others to improve environmental sustainability
Prepare for a career that is in demand by government agencies, manufacturing plants, agriculture, and resource industries across the world
Take classes in UBC's Departments of Chemical and Biological Engineering and Civil Engineering, which are among the top-ranked schools internationally
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
APSC 100 - Introduction to Engineering I
An introduction to the engineering profession including: roles and responsibilities of the engineer, the engineering disciplines, sustainability, an introduction to the engineering design process, introduction and application of the relevant foundational scientific principles, prototyping, engineering graphics, technical communication, and engineering ethics.
PHYS 157 - Introductory Physics for Engineers I
Heat, thermodynamics, oscillations, waves, and sound.
APSC 160 - Introduction to Computation in Engineering Design
Analysis and simulation, laboratory data acquisition and processing, measurement interfaces, engineering tools, computer systems organization, programming languages. Credit will only be given for one of: APSC 160, CPSC 301, or EOSC 211.
MATH 101 - Integral Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
The definite integral, integration techniques, applications, modelling, infinite series.
CIVL 204 - Fundamentals of Environmental Engineering
Environmental engineering issues and projects; application of scientific and engineering principles to addressing these; soil, water and air pollution, and remediation.
CHBE 364 - Environmental Engineering Laboratory
Laboratory experiments to illustrate key concepts and measurement techniques in environmental engineering as used by  engineers.
CIVL 408 - Geo-Environmental Engineering
Environmental contamination, regulatory requirements, site investigation, migration of contaminants, containment systems, site remediation technologies, design considerations related to soil-contaminant interactions, hydrogeology, geochemistry and types of contaminants. Design and performance case histories.
EOSC 329 - Groundwater Hydrology
Introduction to theory of groundwater flow; flow nets; regional groundwater resource evaluation; well hydraulics; role of groundwater in geologic processes.
CHBE 459 - Chemical and Biological Engineering Economics
Estimation of capital and operating costs; interest calculations; taxes; economic comparison of alternatives; economic optimization.
CIVL 416 - Environmental Hydraulics
Application of hydraulic engineering principles to problems of environmental concern. Pollutant transport and dispersion. Mixing in rivers and lakes. Theory of jets and plumes. Design of outfall diffusers.
EOSC 429 - Groundwater Contamination
Contaminant transport processes in groundwater flow systems; aqueous and multiphase transport; mathematical models describing migration and chemical evolution of contaminant plumes; case studies.
MINE 486 - Mining and The Environment
Environmental topics of importance to engineers practicing within the mining, metallurgical and related industries including technical practices, regulatory and public issues.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
Your future
After completing this program, you’ll be ready for a career in industries including:
Environmental engineering in all levels of government, NGOs, consulting, or extractive and manufacturing industries – both locally and internationally
Sustainability planning and design
Environmental policy formulation
Designing facilities, management systems, and information systems
Performing impact assessments (including regulatory, sustainability, environmental, social, and risk)
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Applied Science (Engineering)
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
IB Chemistry
IB Physics
Academically strong candidates missing either IB Chemistry or IB Physics may be evaluated on a case-by-case basis
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Programs spotlight: Earth, environment, and sustainability
Read admissions blog post
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC