Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/environmental-chemistry/

Environmental Chemistry
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Environmental Chemistry provides you with a solid education in the four key areas of chemistry – analytical, inorganic, organic, and physical chemistry – along with core courses in environmental chemistry and other fields, including biology and earth and environmental science.
Why this program?
Learn on a tight-knit campus where you can work closely with professors and peers
Get the skills required to work in one of the fastest-growing fields of science
Have the opportunity to work on your own research or alongside professors on theirs
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
No
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Learn how the environment works, how to analyze parts per trillion of environmental contaminants, and how to monitor environmental impacts in the Environmental Chemistry program on UBC’s Okanagan campus. Choose to complete an honours degree or major in Environmental Chemistry, then use your Bachelor of Science as a stepping stone to medical, dental, or veterinary degrees.
Experiential learning and research
The Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science supports student research through the Undergraduate Research Awards, which allow students to carry out their own projects over the summer months, and other awards, which provide opportunities to work with professors on their research.
You can also join the Environmental Chemistry Course Union to build friendships, get academic support, and gain increased access to career resources. In addition to having an active social schedule, the course union brings in speakers from industry and government to advise students on career opportunities.
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science Research Awards
NSERC Undergraduate Student Research Awards
UBCO Environmental Chemistry Course Union
Chemistry research groups
Send details
Why this program?
Learn on a tight-knit campus where you can work closely with professors and peers
Get the skills required to work in one of the fastest-growing fields of science
Have the opportunity to work on your own research or alongside professors on theirs
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
CHEM 111 - Principles of Chemistry I
Stoichiometry, atomic and molecular structure, chemical periodicity, gases, liquids, solids, and solutions. Not open to students with Chemistry 12.
CHEM 123 - Physical and Organic Chemistry
Principles of equilibrium and chemical thermodynamics. Introductory organic chemistry: stereochemistry; substitution, elimination, and oxidation-reduction reactions. This course or CHEM 113 is prerequisite to all subsequent courses in Chemistry.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions, limits. Covers applications and modelling: graphing and optimization.
BIOL 116 - Biology for Science Majors I
First of a pair of courses that introduce students to the biological concepts necessary to continue into second-year biology. Covers evolutionary theory and its underlying genetic basis, basic cell biology, plant and animal nutrition, and energy acquisition. Credit will be granted for only BIOL 116/125 or BIOL 117/122.
CHEM 201 - Introduction to Physical Chemistry
Principles of chemical kinetics, reaction mechanisms, and chemical thermodynamics.
CHEM 203 - Introduction to Organic Chemistry
Structure, bonding, and physical properties of aliphatic and aromatic compounds; conformational analysis, stereochemistry, and NMR spectroscopy; substitution and elimination reactions of alkyl halides; ethers, epoxides, aldehydes, ketones. Credit will not be granted for only one of CHEM 203 or CHEM 213.
CHEM 211 - Analytical Chemistry
Statistical analysis and errors of measurement, method development and validation, solution equilibria as applied to analysis, analysis of acids and bases, analytical electrochemistry, chemical separation, introduction to gas and liquid chromatography.
CHEM 220 - Atomic Structure and Molecular Bonding
Examination of various theories of atomic structure and molecular bonding, and their use to explain chemical and physical properties of atoms and molecules. Atomic wave mechanics, Lewis theory, valence bond theory, crystal field theory, symmetry and group theory, and molecular orbital theory of diatomic and polyatomic molecules and extended solids.
EESC 111 - Earth Science
Origin, structure and composition of Earth. Plate tectonics as the unifying mechanism for mountain building, formation of ocean basins, and assembly and break-up of continents. Minerals, rocks, Earth surface processes, geological maps, natural resources and hazards.
CHEM 302 - Atmospheric Environmental Chemistry
Introduction to structure, composition, and chemical processes occurring in Earth's atmosphere including interactions with solar radiation, stratospheric ozone layer, photochemical smog, and acid rain.
CHEM 311 - Instrumental Analytical Chemistry
Overview of instrumental methods of chemical analysis, including spectroscopic methods, mass spectrometry, surface analysis, and chromatography.
CHEM 330 - Advanced Organic Chemistry
Application of carbonyl group chemistry, cyclisation reactions, conformational analysis, and rearrangement reactions in organic synthesis.
EESC 309 - Global Biogeochemistry
Functional processes and reactions of our living planet. Cycles of materials and energy among the atmosphere, lithosphere, and terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems.  Case studies on the degradation of ecosystem function from anthropogenic alterations of natural cycles.
EESC 323 - Geochemistry
Origin, distribution, and cycles of elements in Earth.  Low-temperature aqueous solution chemistry, fluid-rock interaction, mineral stability, isotopes.
CHEM 412 - Methods in Bioanalytical Chemistry
Chemical analysis of biological samples including: solid and liquid phase solvent extraction protocols,  bioassay-guided fractionation, analytical method development and validation, complex separations and matrix effects, bioinformatics, metabolomics, and proteomics.
CHEM 461 - Advanced Analytical Chemistry Laboratory
Integrated laboratory course designed to illustrate principles of modern analytical chemistry.
EESC 423 - Tracers of Natural Processes
Stable and radiogenic isotopes in the lithosphere, hydrosphere, atmosphere and biosphere.  Fractionation processes, dating methods. Selected topics in the use of isotopic tracers.
CHEM 449 - Honours Thesis in Chemistry
Original research work under the direction of a faculty member. Includes a written thesis, public poster presentation, and public thesis defence. It is recommended that CHEM 449 not be taken until a student's final year of study.
CHEM 422 - Special Topics in Chemistry
An advanced or specialized topic in chemistry, generally with an emphasis on recent literature. Topics will usually vary with each course offering. With different topics, the course can be taken more than once for credit. Each offering will normally be 3 credits.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Aerial view of UBC's Okanagan campus
Life at UBC's Okanagan campus
UBC's Okanagan campus is renowned for its research opportunities and access to professors. On a tight-knit campus like the Okanagan’s, you’ll be able to work closely with award-winning faculty who are making meaningful strides in areas like the Earth’s carbon cycle, global warming, recovering valuable molecules and minerals from mine waste, and discovering neurotoxins produced by lake cyanobacteria.
Find out more
Your future
Graduates from the Environmental Chemistry program on UBC’s Okanagan campus are equipped for career opportunities with:
Environmental consulting companies
Environmental protection organizations in industry and government
Public and private analytical laboratories
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics is strongly recommended
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life
Read admissions blog post
Meet Ashley, a UBC student who used Chemistry to bridge the worlds of art and science
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC