Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/environmental-design/

Environmental Design
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Visit program website
UBC's Bachelor of Environmental Design is no longer accepting applications. If this area of study interests you, please check out the new
Bachelor of Design in Architecture, Landscape Architecture, and Urbanism
.
Why this program?
Award-winning faculty who are internationally renowned experts in their fields
Small studios and intimate seminars mean low student-to-faculty ratios
Interdisciplinary learning opportunities with a curriculum that integrates architecture, landscape architecture, and urban design
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
School of Architecture and Landscape Architecture
Degree:
Bachelor of Environmental Design
Length
2 yrs
Co-op
No
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Build a strong foundation in design thinking and critical investigation. In Environmental Design, you’ll explore the social, cultural, and environmental impacts of placemaking through courses in architecture, landscape architecture, and urban design.
UBC’s Environmental Design program challenges you to examine the role of design in the broad environmental decision-making processes of society. The emphasis is on design learning, supported by ecological, social, theoretical, and technical courses.
As an Environmental Design student, you’ll learn how design impacts society and the environment, how the making of space can affect cultural change, and how to envision alternative constructs that are socially and ecologically sustainable.
This non-professional bachelor’s degree is intended as a preparatory degree for students interested in pursuing a Master of Architecture or a Master of Landscape Architecture. You’ll enter the program in your third year of study, after completing two years of full-time, post-secondary education.
Experiential learning and research
As an Environmental Design student, you’ll have the opportunity to enrol in a design build elective where you’ll take a real-world problem, find a design solution, and follow through with creation.
Design+Build at SALA
Campus features
The School of Architecture and Landscape Architecture offers access to a comprehensive woodworking shop as well as digital fabrication devices, including 3D printers and laser cutters.
Making+Building at SALA
Send details
Why this program?
Award-winning faculty who are internationally renowned experts in their fields
Small studios and intimate seminars mean low student-to-faculty ratios
Interdisciplinary learning opportunities with a curriculum that integrates architecture, landscape architecture, and urban design
Sample courses
Year 3
Year 4
ENDS 301 - Environmental Design Studio I
Introduction to the study of relationships of human beings' environments; methods of analysis and composition; physical properties of land, natural and man-made; simple spatial and functional programs deployed in the creation of outdoor spaces.
ENDS 302 - Environmental Design Studio II
Expands the terms of the purposeful transformation of "place" to include modifications to the environment at the scale of the individual; concepts of dwelling and habitation; the human body as an instrument of measure, dimension and design of the private realm.
ENDS 220 - Architecture in Context: Vancouver
The unfolding architecture and urbanism of Metro Vancouver. Using Vancouver as a laboratory to examine the historical transformation of the built environment, and how this has affected particular activities, land uses, and social groups within the region.
ENDS 320 - Design, Media and Representation
Theories, histories and techniques of design representation; geometry, design and expression are principle areas of focus.
ARCH 403 - Themes in Architecture and Design
Introduction to a broad range of themes in architecture and design. Restricted to B.En.D. students.
ENDS 401 - Environmental Design Studio III
The exploration of a complex physical and spatial program for building in the public realm, resulting in an integrative design project.
ENDS 402 - Environmental Design Studio IV
Expands the scale and design enquiry to emphasize the relationships between communities and environment, urban infrastructure, and ecological systems.
ENDS 440 - Environment and Urban Form
Relationships between, and integration of, the natural environment and the physical form, spatial structure, and livability of cities.
ARCH 411 - Materials and Methods of Construction
An investigation of building materials and systems considering design objectives, environmental conditions, historical context, regulatory controls, and economic constraints. The major building systems of light wood frame, steel, and concrete and the technical and expressive opportunities inherent in each. Restricted to B.En.D. students.
ARCH 405 - Topics in Architectural History II (1900-Present)
History of architecture in the post-1900 time period. Technological, political, social, and economic changes which have influenced architecture and related fields.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Meet Cecilia, an Environmental Science and Human Geography student from Peru
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC