Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/environmental-engineering-joint-unbc-ubc/

Environmental Engineering (joint UNBC/UBC)
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
This degree is a 4.5-year (nine semester) joint degree between UBC and the University of Northern British Columbia (UNBC). If you are interested in engineering, and in preserving our natural environment, then Environmental Engineering could be for you. Environmental engineering is the application of science and engineering principles to improve air, land, water, and living systems for a healthy environment.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Applied Science (Engineering)
Degree:
Bachelor of Applied Science (Engineering)
Length
4.5 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Environmental Engineering is a 4.5-year (nine semester) joint degree between UBC and the University of Northern British Columbia (UNBC – located in Prince George, BC).  Application for admission is made through UNBC.
The program starts with a two-year foundation in mathematics, basic sciences, and environmental sciences from UNBC. The third and fourth years offer training in engineering fundamentals, engineering analysis, and engineering design, through courses in Civil Engineering and Chemical & Biological Engineering at UBC. The final term at UNBC exposes you to practical environmental engineering problems.
A selection of the UBC courses you can take (years three and four) are listed to the right of this page, in the “what you will learn” section. To view the UNBC courses (years one, two, and five), visit the
program webpage
.
The program is designed to meet the criteria of the Canadian Engineering Accreditation Board and of environmental engineering registration with the Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of the Province of British Columbia. Prospective international students should determine certification requirements in the country of their intended practice.
Campus features
The Environmental Engineering program is based on a unique collaboration between UNBC and UBC, which capitalizes on the strength of UNBC in Environmental Science and the strength of UBC in Engineering. It incorporates complementary elements and expertise from each institution while maintaining the exposure of students to the distinctive character of both institutions.
UNBC Environmental Science and Engineering
Send details
Sample courses
Year 3
Year 4
CHBE 244 - Chemical and Biological Engineering Thermodynamics I
Energy and the first law; second law of thermodynamics; entropy; availability (energy) analysis; thermodynamic properties of fluids, application to power generation, refrigeration, and liquefaction, as well as biological, environmental, and electrochemical systems.
CHBE 364 - Environmental Engineering Laboratory
Laboratory experiments to illustrate key concepts and measurement techniques in environmental engineering as used by  engineers.
CHBE 485 - Air Pollution Prevention and Control
Impacts of air pollutants on health, visibility, smog formation, ozone depletion and global warming; air quality and emission standards; atmospheric dispersion of air pollutants; prevention and control technologies for particulates, SOx, NOx, VOCs, and CO2.
CIVL 315 - Fluid Mechanics II
Two dimensional flow around immersed objects; velocity and pressure fields; lift and drag on cylinders and aerofoils; fluid loads on structures and structural response; pumps and turbines; analysis and design of pipeline systems; unsteady flow in pipes; frictionless waterhammer analysis.
MINE 486 - Mining and The Environment
Environmental topics of importance to engineers practicing within the mining, metallurgical and related industries including technical practices, regulatory and public issues.
CHBE 352 - Transport Phenomena II
Heat and mass transfer; conduction and molecular diffusion; convective transfer; analogies among heat, mass and momentum transfer; heat exchanger design; mass transfer coefficients; interphase mass transfer.
CIVL 402 - Professionalism and Law in Civil Engineering
The Engineers and Geoscientists Act; professional ethics, conflicts of interest, confidentiality and accountability; health and safety; sustainable development and environmental stewardship; equity considerations; design and construction contracts, specifications and tendering; labour and employment law; dispute resolution; evidence and expert witnesses; torts and legal liability.
CIVL 416 - Environmental Hydraulics
Application of hydraulic engineering principles to problems of environmental concern. Pollutant transport and dispersion. Mixing in rivers and lakes. Theory of jets and plumes. Design of outfall diffusers.
EOSC 429 - Groundwater Contamination
Contaminant transport processes in groundwater flow systems; aqueous and multiphase transport; mathematical models describing migration and chemical evolution of contaminant plumes; case studies.
CIVL 403 - Engineering Economic Analysis
Time value of money; cash flow analysis; comparing options; depreciation, taxes, and inflation; financial accounting; company structures; public sector projects; decision-making.
Your future
Your career opportunities will vary widely across a range of fields including agriculture, forestry, manufacturing, construction, remediation and waste management, mining, power utilities, and energy distribution networks, and others.
Careers with Environmental Engineering
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Applied Science (Engineering)
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
IB Chemistry
IB Physics
Academically strong candidates missing either IB Chemistry or IB Physics may be evaluated on a case-by-case basis
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Daniel, a Tanzanian student whose lend-a-hand philosophy has served him well
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC