Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/film-production/

Film Production
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Develop your intellectual, creative, and technical skills as you prepare to embark on a professional career in the film industry. Your coursework will provide you with core disciplines and filmic knowledge as well as practical experience in filmmaking. BFA and diploma students produce and work on several films while in the program.
Why this program?
UBC is one of the oldest Film Production programs in Western Canada with a well-established alumni network.
Take classes in an intimate cohort of 20 students.
Take Production Design courses from the Theatre program, and Screenwriting courses from the Creative Writing program.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Fine Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Film production is a hands-on program where you learn by doing. Filmmaking is a creative, dynamic process requiring the cooperation and creative input of many people. Good filmmaking requires that those involved have a broad knowledge base. The goal of this program is to graduate creative, independent filmmakers with the skills, ideas, and initiative to shape the industry.
Not only will you learn in the classroom and through assignments, but you will learn from more senior students as they assist on student film sets outside of class. Directed studies credit is possible for students who complete internships.
Campus features
With the recent addition of the Film Collection, UBC’s Visual Resources Centre has total holdings of over 400,000 35mm photographic slides, videos, films, DVDs, and a growing database of 35,000 digital images.
NBC Studio:
a convertible classroom space which features a green screen and lighting grid.
Editing rooms:
computers have both Final Cut Pro and Premiere software for editing, as well as software for other aspects of post production.
Visual Resources Centre:
total holdings of over 400,000 35mm photographic slides, videos, films, DVDs, and a growing database of 35,000 digital images.
Equipment room: grip, electric, sound and camera gear to support student projects.
Visual Resources Centre
Send details
Why this program?
UBC is one of the oldest Film Production programs in Western Canada with a well-established alumni network.
Take classes in an intimate cohort of 20 students.
Take Production Design courses from the Theatre program, and Screenwriting courses from the Creative Writing program.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
FIST 100 - Introduction to Film Studies
Basic aesthetic, economic, sociological, and technological aspects of film.
VISA 110 - Foundation Studio: Digital Media
Foundation instruction in techniques and approaches to digital practice. The nature of digital technologies and their role in contemporary culture will be examined. (This course is open to all UBC students, regardless of prior experience.)
FIPR 101 - Introduction to the History of Film Production
The history of film and film production by decade with a strong emphasis on filmmakers and advances in production technology.
FIPR 133 - Introduction to Film and Media Production
A hands-on introduction to Film and Multi/New Media production, focusing on fundamental techniques for creating effective presentations.
FIPR 131 - Introduction to Screen Acting
Fundamental techniques used to create emotionally engaged and narratively effective performances for film and digital media.
FIPR 230 - Introduction to Motion Picture Directing
The role and methods of the motion picture director.
FIPR 233 - Film and Media Production I
Camera operation, lighting, sounds, and editing for film and media production.
FIPR 234 - Production Planning and Professional Practices
Planning of film productions from concept to completion.
CRWR 206 - Introduction to Writing for the Screen
Techniques of and practice in creating, developing, and writing a screenplay. Manuscript submission is not required for admission.
FIPR 330 - Intermediate Motion Picture Directing
FIPR 333 - Film and Media Production II
Intermediate film and media production. Open only to students in the Film Production BFA Program. Students who have not already completed FIPR 337, FIPR 338 must complete them at the same time as FIPR 333.
FIPR 338 - Motion Picture Sound
An introduction to the technique and aesthetics of creating production and post-production sound for film and media.
FIPR 339 - Post-Production Techniques I
Open only to students in the Film Production BFA Program.
FIPR 433 - Film and Media Production III
Advanced film and media production.
FIPR 434 - Producing for Film and Television
The creative and business aspects of producing for film and television.
FIPR 435 - Alternative Cinema Production
Experimental approaches to content, structure, technology and style in film and media production. Students who have not yet completed FIPR 233, 234, 337, 339, must complete them at the same time as FIPR 333.
FIPR 436 - Documentary Development and Production
Documentary concept development, essential production techniques, and marketing.
FIPR 437 - Cinematography II
Advanced camera operation, lighting, and shot design. Open only to students in the FILM BFA Program.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
View larger image
UBC's Vancouver campus
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Theatre at UBC is a renowned training program that has produced some of Canada’s most innovative artists and theatre practices for over 50 years. Our five programs are encouraged to mingle with regular social events with collective meals and complimentary tickets for all to opening nights. The organized student organization, DAFT (Design, Acting, Film, Theatre Council), organizes events and advocates for student concerns.
Find out more
Your future
You can work in film/tv/new media in any aspect of documentary or fiction filmmaking in a multitude of roles, including writer, director, cinematographer, producer, art director, sound designer, editor, or in arts administration.
Program graduates
Producer, The Good Fight
Cinematographer, There by Tyger’s
Director, Cybercraft Productions
Adjunct professor, UBC Theatre and Film
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Fine Arts (direct-entry specializations only; excludes Creative Writing)
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Audition or portfolio
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Patrick, a multimedia artist who finds inspiration all around him
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC