Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/first-nations-indigenous-studies/

First Nations and Indigenous Studies
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Gain an understanding of the histories, contemporary realities, and political concerns of Indigenous peoples in Canada and beyond. This interdisciplinary program reflects the belief that deep understanding and ethical engagement are central to the well-being of resurgent Indigenous communities and foundational to more respectful Indigenous-settler relations.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Why this program?
Gain experience with Indigenous political theory and politics, aesthetics, literature, and contemporary social concerns, in the classroom and in community
Combine rigorous critical scholarship with ethical community engagement.
Complete a research practicum as part of your studies.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
First Nations and Indigenous Studies is an interdisciplinary program, open to all undergraduate students. You will enrol in a set of core courses that focus on topics and approaches central to First Nations communities, as well as select from a list of relevant courses in other departments.
Fourth-year First Nations and Indigenous Studies students complete a 6-credit research practicum in partnership with an Aboriginal organization. The practicum provides valuable experience in designing, negotiating, and implementing research projects that respond to community needs.
You can select Major or Minor concentrations, as well as Double Major or Major-Minor options that complement your other interests.
Campus features
The First Nations House of Learning is located in the First Nations, a unique building that reflects the architectural traditions of the Northwest Coast. The Longhouse allows Aboriginal students to study in an environment which reflects Aboriginal traditions and cultures. It houses the Xwi7xwa Library, the Native Indian Teacher Education Program (NITEP), and the UBC First Nations Student Association.
First Nations House of Learning
Send details
Why this program?
Gain experience with Indigenous political theory and politics, aesthetics, literature, and contemporary social concerns, in the classroom and in community
Combine rigorous critical scholarship with ethical community engagement.
Complete a research practicum as part of your studies.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
FNIS 100 - Indigenous Foundations
The historical, cultural, political, economic and legal issues that inform the experiences of Indigenous peoples in Canada, examined from both Indigenous and non-Indigenous perspectives.
FNEL 101 - Introduction to a Salish Language I
Emphasis on accurate pronunciation, conversation, basic grammatical structures and listening and literacy skills, and the study of oral traditions in their cultural context. No prior knowledge of the language is assumed.
FNEL 180 - Introduction to Endangered Language Documentation and Revitalization
Foundational concepts in the critical study of cultural, historical, social, and political factors that impact language loss, retention, and revival. Introducing strategies and practical methodologies for collaborative, interdisciplinary, community-based documentation and revitalization projects for First Nations and Indigenous languages.
SOCI 100 - Introduction to Sociology
Introduction to problems in the analysis of social structures and processes. Basic sociological concepts will be introduced and their application demonstrated in various areas of sociology.
FNIS 210 - Indigenous Politics and Self-Determination
The cultural, historical, political, economic, and gender dynamics that structure the relationship between Indigenous peoples and the state in Canada; Indigenous self-determination struggles in relation to constitutional recognition, self-government, land claims, and economic development.
FNIS 220 - Representation and Indigenous Cultural Politics
Representation, identity, and cultural politics through Indigenous literature, film, and the visual arts; the relationship between these sites of cultural production and the self-determination struggles of Indigenous peoples.
FRST 270 - Community Forests and Community Forestry
Community forests and community forestry throughout the world, with special attention to participation by aboriginal peoples; emphasis is on forms of governance, public participation, and adaptive learning.
CRWR 220 - Introduction to Creative Writing with an Indigenous Focus
Covers three genres from fiction, poetry, creative nonfiction, radio drama, radio feature, or stageplay.
FNIS 310 - Critical Indigenous Theory Seminar
Adapting and integrating current conceptual paradigms in the humanities, social sciences, performing arts, and Indigenous studies into approaches in First Nations/Indigenous Studies, including identity construction, political and cultural self-determination, representation, essentialism/authenticity, ethics, and decolonization.
FNIS 320 - Critical Indigenous Methodologies and Ethics
Responsible and community-based research from a critical Indigenous perspective; methods for identifying and assessing research materials, critical analysis, oral history/qualitative research interviewing and analysis, and research ethics in the design and implementation of community-based student research projects.
LFS 340 - First Nations Health and the Traditional Role of Plants
This Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) course covers the First Nations medical systems and medicinal plants. Bridging the traditional with modern sciences.
PLAN 321 - Indigeneity and the City
Place-based exploration of the multiple, complex and contested ways urban Indigeneity is constituted in Canada today, with opportunities for field trips and hands-on learning.
FNIS 400 - Practicum/Advanced Research Seminar
Applied research/community oriented project designed and implemented in collaboration with student, faculty and Aboriginal community organization. Emphasis on examining ethical issues and developing culturally respectful and academically rigorous forms of research.
FNIS 401 - Special Topics
Topics will vary from year to year. Consult the departmental website: http://fnsp.arts.ubc.ca.
FNIS 451 - Indigenous Feminisms
The historical, cultural, political, and activist roots of contemporary Indigenous feminisms. Indigenous feminist methodologies, theory, and praxis in relation to contemporary Indigenous politics and social justice movements.
FNIS 453 - Indigenous Legal Traditions
Socio-historical, political and cultural context of Indigenous legal traditions and strategies for ethical engagement within state and Indigenous polities. Methods include oral history analysis, legal theory, literary/narrative studies, and philosophy from an Indigenous studies perspective.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Buchanan Building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
First Nations and Indigenous Studies faculty are deeply committed to sharing their knowledge and experience with their students. Learn from faculty members who are dedicated to instilling in their students an appreciation of rigorous, ethical scholarship, and a willingness to apply their learning meaningfully well beyond graduation.
Find out more
Your future
As a student in the interdisciplinary FNIS program, you will gain a comprehensive education in Indigenous political theory and politics, aesthetics, literature, and contemporary social concerns, as well as in relevant topics from other departments. With this solid foundation, career opportunities include such varied vocations as cultural resource manager, youth worker, media consultant, student/academic advisor, museum curator, community support worker, and more. Graduates of the FNIS program have been successful in gaining admission to competitive graduate programs throughout North America and abroad.
Program graduates
Program assistant, Institute for Critical Indigenous Studies UBC
Academic project manager, St. John’s College UBC and UBC Student Housing and Hospitality Services
Research assistant, Indian Residential School History and Dialogue Centre
Coordinator, Homeward Trust Edmonton
Aboriginal initiatives coordinator, CTLT, UBC
UBC stories
"Before UBC and the First Nations Studies program, I hadn’t even considered the possibility that I could pursue a career in filmmaking. After being introduced to the world of independent Indigenous cinema, I realized there was so much more out there for me. I could be a storyteller in ways I had never imagined."
Elle-Máijá Tailfeathers, First Nations Studies (minor in Women's and Gender Studies)
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC