Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/first-nations-endangered-languages/

First Nations and Endangered Languages
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Explore the processes and protocols for the documentation, conservation, revitalization, and reclamation of endangered languages, cultures, and Indigenous knowledge systems locally, regionally, and internationally. This interdisciplinary program offers courses in First Nations and Endangered languages at all levels, from introductory to advanced.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
No
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
FNEL offers courses in First Nations languages, as well as methodology classes on language documentation, conservation, and revitalization. In partnership and collaboration with First Nations and Indigenous communities and their cultural institutions, staff, scholars, and students in our program conduct research with speakers of endangered languages and help to develop educational materials in British Columbia and beyond.
Campus features
The First Nations House of Learning is located in the First Nations Longhouse, a unique building that reflects the architectural traditions of the Northwest Coast. The Longhouse allows Aboriginal students to study in an environment which reflects Aboriginal traditions and cultures. It houses the X̱wi7x̱wa Library, the Native Indian Teacher Education Program (NITEP), and the UBC First Nations Student Association.
First Nations House of Learning
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
FNEL 101 - Introduction to a Salish Language I
Emphasis on accurate pronunciation, conversation, basic grammatical structures and listening and literacy skills, and the study of oral traditions in their cultural context. No prior knowledge of the language is assumed.
FNEL 141 - Introduction to a Wakashan Language I
Emphasis on accurate pronunciation, conversation, basic grammatical structures, listening and literacy skills, and the study of oral traditions in their cultural context. No prior knowledge of the language is assumed. Not offered every year.
FNEL 180 - Introduction to Endangered Language Documentation and Revitalization
Foundational concepts in the critical study of cultural, historical, social, and political factors that impact language loss, retention, and revival. Introducing strategies and practical methodologies for collaborative, interdisciplinary, community-based documentation and revitalization projects for First Nations and Indigenous languages.
FNIS 100 - Indigenous Foundations
The historical, cultural, political, economic and legal issues that inform the experiences of Indigenous peoples in Canada, examined from both Indigenous and non-Indigenous perspectives.
FNEL 201 - Intermediate Salish Language I
Emphasis on increasing fluency in conversational ability, enhancing pronunciation and comprehension skills, expanding vocabulary, extending literacy and grammatical understanding, and further study of oral traditions in their cultural context.
FNEL 281 - Sounds of Endangered Languages: Conservation and Revitalization
Development of skills in the perception and transcription of speech sounds in endangered languages, focusing on the diversity within BC Aboriginal languages. Capacity-building techniques for digital recording, editing, analysis, and archiving; guided by community-based ethical protocols and conservation/revitalization goals.
SOCI 201 - Ethnic Relations
An introduction to the study of the relations between ethnic groups and of the interplay between ethnicity and other social factors.
LING 200 - Linguistic Theory and Analysis I
Introduction to phonetics and phonology; training in the identification and production of speech sounds; principles and methods for describing and writing the sound system of a language; phonological theory with reference to selected languages; the interface between phonology and morphology. Analytical practice and seminar discussion.
FNEL 380 - Technologies for Endangered Language Documentation and Revitalization
Digital tools for endangered language documentation, conservation, and revitalization. Overview of best practices, introduction to community engagement and capacity-building, protocols and ethics, project design, cultural context, orthographies, use of audio, video and still photography, data management, archiving and web publishing.
FNEL 381 - Biocultural Diversity: Language, Community, and Environment
Critical exploration of the links between linguistic, biological and cultural diversity; including connections with linguistic relativity, linguistic identity, language and place; and strategies for collective, interdisciplinary action to promote and support the protection of languages, cultures, and the environment.
ANTH 329 - Contemporary First Nations Issues
Anthropological perspectives on contemporary issues of public policy, law, and political activity, as they affect the place of First Nations people in British Columbia and Canada.
LFS 340 - First Nations Health and the Traditional Role of Plants
This Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) course covers the First Nations medical systems and medicinal plants. Bridging the traditional with modern sciences.
FNEL 448 - c Directed Research in First Nations Languages
Supervised by a faculty member.
FNEL 480 - Endangered Language Documentation and Revitalization
Critical study of the historical, social, cultural, political, and economic factors impacting on language loss, retention, and revival. Research on and application of methodologies for collaborative, trans-disciplinary, community-based documentation and revitalization of BC's Indigenous linguistic heritage.
FNEL 482 - Applied Research in Endangered Language Reclamation
Application of research skills and methodologies in the design and implementation of a research project relevant to endangered language conservation and/or revitalization. Project co-constructed in collaboration with a First Nations community, guided by community-based ethical protocols. FNEL 481 recommended.
FNEL 483 - Indigenous Languages of BC: Diversity and Vitality
Genetic affiliation, areal contact, typological diversity, and initiatives to sustain the vitality and diversity of BC First Nations Languages.
Your future
Your career opportunities will vary widely across a range of fields including Indigenous organizations, education, government, business, media, museums, law, and others.
There are many career paths that can combine your academics, skills, and experience with your different interests, including:
Child and youth worker
Communications manager
Community culture and language worker
Counsellor
Cultural site or museum interpreter
Digital storyteller
Urban and Land Use Planning
Tourism consultant
Careers with First Nations and Endangered Languages
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Meet Quill, and find out how she's deepened her connection to her Aboriginal culture at UBC
Read admissions blog post
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC