Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/food-nutrition-and-health/

Food, Nutrition, and Health
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Explore the economic, ecological, social, and technological components of managed landscapes, agrifood systems, and communities comprising the land, food, nutrition, and health continuum. In Food, Nutrition, and Health, you can customize your degree as you study a broad range of topics related to applied nutrition and the science of nutrition.
Why this program?
Access to both Food Science and Nutritional Sciences courses and faculty expertise.
Ability to customize your program with flexible program requirements and a wide variety of electives.
Opportunity to enhance your program with dual degrees and minors.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Degree:
Bachelor of Science in Food, Nutrition, and Health
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The Food, Nutrition, and Health program gives you the flexibility to pursue your interests while gaining a deeper knowledge of issues related to food production, food security, and the role of nutrition in disease prevention. Choosing from a wide variety of electives, you’ll study a broad curriculum of your own design as you prepare for a career in the food and health sectors. Food, Nutrition, and Health students can apply to dual degrees with Bachelor of Education or Master of Management, or one of six minors to complement their program.
Experiential learning and research
UBC’s culinary lab, named Vij’s Kitchen, is an important teaching and learning space. Students gain hands-on experience in creating healthy meals and eating plans, study linkages between food and nutrition, and learn about multicultural cuisine. Undergraduate students are also welcome to participate in research in the FNH laboratories through upper-level courses and practicums.
In addition, students can integrate classroom learning with real-world experience through community engagement projects and co-op placements. Career mentorship and directed studies are other options to extend your learning.
Campus features
The Food, Nutrition, and Health (FNH) building is home for students in the program. This is where students and faculty members do internationally recognized research in food science, food processing, nutrition, and health. The building houses UBC’s culinary and sensory labs, food engineering and processing labs, clinical nutrition lab, and clinical research units for behaviour and consumer studies.
Send details
Why this program?
Access to both Food Science and Nutritional Sciences courses and faculty expertise.
Ability to customize your program with flexible program requirements and a wide variety of electives.
Opportunity to enhance your program with dual degrees and minors.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
LFS 100 - Introduction to Land, Food and Community
Orientation to the programs, learning environment and core values of the Faculty of Land and Food Systems; career programs; survey of professional opportunities and requirements.
LFS 150 - Scholarly Writing and Argumentation in Land and Food Systems
Communicating concepts of food systems and links to human and environmental health through writing, elements of argumentation, evaluating evidence, and searching for and citing references to back up claims; small-class experience. Enrolment limited to LFS students with first year status.
BIOL 112 - Biology of the Cell
The principles of cellular and molecular biology using bacterial and eukaryotic examples.
CHEM 121 - Structure and Bonding in Chemistry
Fundamentals of bonding theories and structural chemistry, with applications relevant to modern society.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modelling: graphing, optimization.
FNH 200 - Exploring Our Food
Chemical and physical properties of foods; issues pertaining to safety, nutritive value and consumer acceptability; government regulations pertaining to food safety, quality and additives; preservation techniques and transformation of agricultural commodities to food products; foods of the future.
FNH 250 - Nutrition Concepts and Controversies
Fundamental concepts and principles of human nutrition applied to current nutrition issues.
LFS 250 - Land, Food and Community I: Introduction to Food Systems and Sustainability
Managed systems and concepts of sustainability; economic, ecological and social components; managed landscapes, agri-food systems, and communities; urban and rural systems; the land, food, nutrition and human health continuum.
BIOL 201 - Introduction to Biochemistry
Biological molecules, protein structure and enzyme action, energy transfer, central metabolic pathways and their regulation. Examples drawn from plants, animals and microorganisms. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section of the Calendar.)
CHEM 233 - Organic Chemistry for the Biological Sciences
Reactions and properties of carbonyl compounds, carbohydrates, amino acids, nucleic acids.
FNH 313 - Food Microbiology
Food microorganisms of importance in safety and spoilage of foods; factors affecting growth, survival and inactivation of microorganisms in foods; food processing plant cleaning and sanitation.
FNH 350 - Fundamentals of Nutrition
Fundamentals of energy and macronutrient metabolism.
FNH 351 - Vitamins, Minerals, and Health
Vitamin and mineral nutrition and their role in maintaining and promoting health.
LFS 350 - Land, Food, and Community II: Principles and Practice of Community Food Security
Project-based application of the principles and processes of community food security. Emphasis on developing skills required to address economic, ecological, social, and technological components of managed landscapes, agri-food systems, and communities comprising the land, food, nutrition and health continuum.
FNH 403 - Food Laws, Regulations and Quality Assurance
Canadian and international laws governing food composition, grading, quality and safety; hazard analysis critical control points; statistical quality assurance.
FNH 355 - International Nutrition
Conceptualization and scientific analyses of global problems in food and nutrition; complexities of food habits and malnutrition in various cultures around the world.
SPPH 301 - Understanding the Sociocultural Determinants of the Health of Populations
The Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) course covers the idea of "population health," and the implementation and evaluation of programs or policies to improve health.
FNH 414 - Sustainability in the Food Industry
Regenerative sustainability and the sustainability nexus; health and environmental impacts of the food industry; environmental performance indicators and management systems; approaches to enhance sustainability in the food industry.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
View larger image
Food, Nutrition, and Health building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Learn from world-renowned professors recognized for their research and contribution to the field of food production, food security, and the role of nutrition in disease prevention.
Find out more
Your future
The Food, Nutrition, and Health (FNH) program is excellent preparation for a future healthcare career: nursing, medicine, dentistry, or midwifery. With suitable course selections, students may enter UBC’s Home Economics Teacher Education Program. FNH graduates also work in food systems management and quality assurance (hospitals, food companies, government), nutrition and food science, product development, and more.
Program graduates include:
Policy Analyst, Public Health Agency of Canada
Medical student, University of British Columbia
Senior Sensory Scientist, Starbucks
Marketing coordinator, Herbaland Gummies
PhD in Food Science, and Researcher, Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada
Cookbook author and Podcaster, The Allsorts Podcast
UBC stories
"I realized that I would not only learn about nutrition here, but also [...] social justice issues, psychology, anthropology, and more."
Lucy H., Student
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Food, Nutrition, and Health
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry, and
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Social Studies
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Take a self-guided virtual tour of UBC’s campuses
Read admissions blog post
Chandni’s Story
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC