Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/food-nutritional-sciences/

Food and Nutritional Sciences
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Food and Nutritional Sciences is a competitive double major, combining the core degree requirements of the Food Science and Nutritional Sciences programs. You’ll discover the chemistry and microbiology of food, its nutritional and sensory properties, and the function of nutrients in health and disease, and graduate ready for a career in the food and nutrition industries or graduate-level study in health sciences.
Why this program?
Integrate knowledge of food science, nutrition, and human health to contribute towards healthier and safer food choices for our world.
Gain a comprehensive understanding of two interrelated fields in only five years.
Interact with industry experts through research partnerships, the LFS Mentorship  Program, food plant visits, and career days.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Degree:
Bachelor of Science in Food, Nutrition, and Health
Length
5 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
UBC’s Food and Nutritional Sciences degree has the added distinction of being approved by the Institute of Food Technologists (IFT): the internationally respected governing body that sets the standards in Food Science education. By choosing this double major, you’ll be eligible to apply for
Canadian Institute of Food Science and Technology (CIFST)
scholarships and other food science-specific student funding. You’ll also have access to the
IFT Student Association events
and opportunities to collaborate with other students across North America.
Experiential learning and research
This double major emphasizes hands-on experience through foundational science and food-specific laboratory courses. You’ll also be able to take part in community-based learning through the Land, Food, and Community series, where you’ll investigate regional, national, and global food systems that are ecologically, socially, and economically sustainable.
Additionally, you can build business skills through hands-on opportunities such as working at the student-run Agora Cafe or at food industry co-op placements.
Campus features
The department of Food, Nutrition and Health has spacious chemistry and microbiology laboratories that are used only for undergraduate teaching, providing you with with plenty of space to work on your experimental projects. As well as the teaching kitchen and sensory evaluation space, you’ll spend time in the Pilot Plant facility, which is a modern analytical research laboratory used to develop new food products in sustainable ways.
Send details
Why this program?
Integrate knowledge of food science, nutrition, and human health to contribute towards healthier and safer food choices for our world.
Gain a comprehensive understanding of two interrelated fields in only five years.
Interact with industry experts through research partnerships, the LFS Mentorship  Program, food plant visits, and career days.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
LFS 100 - Introduction to Land, Food and Community
Orientation to the programs, learning environment and core values of the Faculty of Land and Food Systems; career programs; survey of professional opportunities and requirements.
LFS 150 - Scholarly Writing and Argumentation in Land and Food Systems
Communicating concepts of food systems and links to human and environmental health through writing, elements of argumentation, evaluating evidence, and searching for and citing references to back up claims; small-class experience. Enrolment limited to LFS students with first year status.
FNH 160 - Introductory Physiology for Human Nutrition I
Basic principles in human physiology, including function of the nervous, endocrine, musculoskeletal and digestive systems, integration across systems, maintenance of homeostasis, and application to human nutrition.
CHEM 121 - Structure and Bonding in Chemistry
Fundamentals of bonding theories and structural chemistry, with applications relevant to modern society.
PHYS 131 - Energy and Waves (Lecture)
Fluids, harmonic oscillator, travelling waves, standing waves, sound, and interference of light waves, including diffraction.
LFS 250 - Land, Food and Community I: Introduction to Food Systems and Sustainability
Managed systems and concepts of sustainability; economic, ecological and social components; managed landscapes, agri-food systems, and communities; urban and rural systems; the land, food, nutrition and human health continuum.
FNH 200 - Exploring Our Food
Chemical and physical properties of foods; issues pertaining to safety, nutritive value and consumer acceptability; government regulations pertaining to food safety, quality and additives; preservation techniques and transformation of agricultural commodities to food products; foods of the future.
FNH 250 - Nutrition Concepts and Controversies
Fundamental concepts and principles of human nutrition applied to current nutrition issues.
CHEM 235 - Organic Chemistry Laboratory
Techniques of organic chemistry. To be taken in conjunction with, or in the term following, CHEM 233.
MICB 211 - Foundations of Microbiology
Prokaryotic diversity and the impact and applications of microbial metabolic, genetic, and growth processes in environmental contexts. Bacteria-human interactions in health and disease, mode of action of antibiotics and antibiotic resistance, virulence factors of bacteria, and host response to infection.
FNH 301 - Food Chemistry I
Constituents of food and related chemical physical properties including water, carbohydrates, proteins, lipids, minerals, and vitamins.
FNH 303 - Food Product Development
Introduction to and application of concepts involved in food product formulation and development.
FNH 309 - Food Process Science
Preservation of tissue and fluid food systems by selected physical and chemical treatments with emphasis on product-process interactions.
FNH 313 - Food Microbiology
Food microorganisms of importance in safety and spoilage of foods; factors affecting growth, survival and inactivation of microorganisms in foods; food processing plant cleaning and sanitation.
FNH 326 - Food Science Laboratory II
Integrated laboratory encompassing the processing and analysis of foods.  Enrolment restricted to Food Science students.
FNH 351 - Vitamins, Minerals, and Health
Vitamin and mineral nutrition and their role in maintaining and promoting health.
FNH 371 - Human Nutrition Over The Life Span
Nutritional requirements and dietary patterns of healthy individuals throughout the life span. 3-0-0
FNH 398 - Research Methods in Human Nutrition
Process of research; principles and processes in utilizing research. Restricted to students in majors in the FNH program.
FNH 425 - Food Science Laboratory III
Integrated course designed to illustrate principles of research and product development in the food industry.
FNH 477 - Nutrition and Disease Prevention
Evidence-based examination of the role of nutrition in the prevention of chronic disease.
LFS 350 - Land, Food, and Community II: Principles and Practice of Community Food Security
Project-based application of the principles and processes of community food security. Emphasis on developing skills required to address economic, ecological, social, and technological components of managed landscapes, agri-food systems, and communities comprising the land, food, nutrition and health continuum.
FNH 370 - Nutrition Assessment
The use of dietary, anthropometric, biochemical, and related information for the assessment of nutritional status of individuals and populations.
FNH 342 - Critical Perspectives on Consumer Food Practices
Personal, collective, and policy factors affecting food choices, including perceptions of healthy eating, gender, identity, family structures, and economic, sociocultural, and political forces.
FNH 415 - Business Concepts in Food, Nutrition, and Health
Introduction to and application of business activities in food, nutrition, and health settings. Credit will only be granted for only one of FNH 415, FOOD 515, or FRE 515.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
View larger image
Food, Nutrition, and Health building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
This popular program is located on the beautiful UBC Vancouver campus. You’ll learn from skilled researchers and teachers who bring their disciplinary expertise, instructional skills, and industry experience into the classroom.
Find out more
Your future
Many graduates of Food and Nutritional Sciences pursue an
MSc or PhD in Human Nutrition or Food Science
, or a professional
MFS in Food Science
. Others go on to careers in the food and nutrition sectors, in positions such as:
Program graduates
Food product development technician
Quality assurance manager
Nutrition educator
Consumer product officer
Food technologist
Pharmaceutical sales representative
Microbiology technician
Food safety specialist
UBC stories
"There are countless paths that lead towards being a physician and none are better than the others – however, studying Nutritional Sciences at UBC was perfect for me. The structure of the first two years in the program allowed me to complete the Biology, Chemistry, and Physics courses necessary for a solid science foundation...Most specifically, the Faculty of Land and Food Systems gave me many opportunities to work on collaboration, leadership, and problem-solving – important attributes for a medical student."
Brenna Han, Food and Nutritional Sciences
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Food, Nutrition, and Health
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry, and
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Social Studies
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life on Snapchat
Read admissions blog post
Meet Chandni, a UBC student who travelled to Rwanda for a micro-nutrient project
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC