Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/french-vancouver/

French
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Enhance your spoken and written French skills as you study literature, culture, and linguistics. You'll take courses that range from African and Caribbean literature to Quebecois literature, from fiction to cinema, and much more.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Why this program?
Join 200 million French speakers worldwide by speaking one of the principal languages of diplomacy, especially in Canada.
Gain access to great works of French literature, art, cinema, music, fashion, and cuisine.
Explore Francophone culture and literature around the world—from Quebec to the Caribbean, and more.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Whether you’re a complete beginner or a native speaker, you’ll find a rich selection of language and literature courses that will fit your level and interests. The major, minor, and honours in French Language, Literatures and Cultures are designed for students with intermediate or higher fluency in French language, who are interested in developing an appreciation for Francophone literatures and cultures around the world. The minor in French Language is designed for students with limited or no background in French, who are interested in developing a high level of communicative ability in French language for use in professional and academic contexts.
After developing your French language proficiency for practical uses such as travelling, you can explore French literature and the progression of the language as it evolved from Latin in the years of complex life in Medieval France. Modern French cultures offer vibrant literature and distinct societies in Québec, Manitoba, Louisiana, North Africa, sub-Saharan Africa, the Caribbean, and in France’s overseas regions, among others.
A French degree will teach you about connection, communication, and community. It often pairs well with majors or minors in other languages, or with subjects such as Political Science, International Relations, History, Canadian Studies, Linguistics, Arts, Film Studies, Music, and more.
Experiential learning
Go Global allows you to study abroad, bringing course content to life with hands-on learning. You can experience French language and culture by immersing yourself in a French-speaking country or province for several weeks. UBC has study exchange agreements with several universities in France, Belgium, Switzerland and Québec.
Campus features
UBC’s world-class library has exceptional holdings in French and Québécois literature, as well as works on the history of the French language and dialectology, which are among the best in Canada. Among others, it has:
Collections of French literature throughout history, particularly the 18
th
century and modern Québécois literature.
A French Revolution Collection of original pamphlets from the era, exploring the start of the French Revolution in 1789, the political power of the printing press, the Revolution as portrayed on the stage and in music of the time, and the final days of King Louis XVI.
Send details
Why this program?
Join 200 million French speakers worldwide by speaking one of the principal languages of diplomacy, especially in Canada.
Gain access to great works of French literature, art, cinema, music, fashion, and cuisine.
Explore Francophone culture and literature around the world—from Quebec to the Caribbean, and more.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
FREN 301 - Intermediate French I
Refinement of reading, writing and speaking skills through the study of contemporary literature and other authentic documents of the French-speaking world. This course is aligned with level B1 objectives of the CEFR.
FREN 302 - Intermediate French II
A continuation of FREN 301. This course is aligned with level B1 objectives of the CEFR.
FREN 401 - Arts, Cultures and Society from the Middle Ages to the Revolution
Exploration of early French culture and literature from the Middle Ages to the close of the Early Modern period and the French Revolution; the impact of society on the arts and vice versa.
FREN 402 - Introduction to French Linguistics
A survey of basic terminology, methods, problems, and theoretical trends in French linguistics, specifically designed to provide students with a foundation for advanced language study in French.
FREN 311 - Introduction to Literature in French
Critical reading of foundational literary texts in French from genres of prose fiction, non-fiction, poetry, and theatre.
FREN 321 - Critical Writing
Practical tools for university-level writing in French. Apply stylistic devices and rhetorical structures to form questions and arguments, analyse literary and cultural objects, and produce a variety of essay genres.
FREN 352 - French Grammar
Principles of grammar theory and contextualized French grammatical concepts. Emphasis on terminology and analysis of grammatical issues. Aligned with CEFR level B2 objectives.
FREN 346 - French at Work
Communicative French for students preparing for a career in the francophone world. This course is aligned with the B1 objectives of the CEFR.
FREN 353 - Advanced French Grammar
Advanced grammar theory and critical analysis of difficult French grammatical structures. Emphasis on autonomous examination of complex grammatical issues.
FREN 370 - Introduction to French Linguistics
A survey of basic terminology, methods, problems, and theoretical trends in French linguistics, specifically designed to provide students with a foundation for advanced language study in French.
FREN 330 - Introduction to Quebec Literature
Survey of representative literary texts from Quebec viewed in their historical, social, and cultural contexts.
FREN 331 - Arts, Cultures and Society from the Middle Ages to the Revolution
Exploration of early French culture and literature from the Middle Ages to the close of the Early Modern period and the French Revolution; the impact of society on the arts and vice versa.
FREN 410 - Enlightenment and Revolution: Studies in 18th-century French Literature
Aesthetic and ideological trends of eighteenth-century French literature in their historical context.
FREN 418 - African and Caribbean Francophone Literatures
Representative and contemporary writings from African and Caribbean francophone cultures.
FREN 427 - French Cinema
Study of major past and contemporary French film productions.
FREN 470 - Studies in Modern French Linguistics
Current topics in French linguistics. Consult the Department for this year's offerings.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
View larger image
UBC Buchanan Buildings
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
UBC’s Vancouver campus offers many resources that complement and extend the French program. Live in France and teach English through the Language Assistant Program offered in partnership with the French Government. Go on exchange through Go Global’s study abroad programs. Start a conversation exchange with a native speaker through UBC’s Tandem Language Exchange Program. Continue on to UBC’s Faculty of Education and get your teachers' training. Participate in the many activities offered by the Centre de la Francophonie.
Find out more
Your future
Many graduates will find careers as French language teachers in the K-12 school system. Others will work in university teaching and administration positions, translation companies, bilingual federal and provincial administrations, tourism, radio and television, libraries, and many companies across Canada and internationally.
You will develop transferable skills that can be applied to a variety of contexts, including language proficiency, cultural awareness, international and intercultural know-how, critical thinking and problem solving, research skills, and communication skills.
Program graduates
Career Advisor, Faculty of Law, University of Calgary
Teacher, Okanagan Valley School District
View larger image
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Meet Dr. Chapman, an English professor who discovered 89 lost works of literature
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC