Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/freshwater-science/

Freshwater Science
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Prepare yourself for a career in inland aquatic ecosystems. As a Freshwater Science student, you'll study water quality, hydrology, water resources, aquatic organisms, and the health of aquatic ecosystems.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Freshwater Science integrates aspects of biology, chemistry, geography, and earth and environmental sciences to understand inland aquatic systems. Designed to give you a broad perspective on inland waters, this program takes a highly interdisciplinary approach to explore the science behind emerging environmental issues facing our society. Key issues include land use and water interactions, toxicants in the aquatic environment, and the potential effects of global climate change on aquatic environments and water resources.
As a Bachelor of Science student on UBC’s Okanagan campus, you can choose a major or honours in Freshwater Science.
Experiential learning and research
Your coursework will be enhanced with field trips and opportunities to get out into the Okanagan’s great outdoors. In your third or fourth year of study, you’ll have the option of completing directed studies and conducting independent readings and research.
If you choose the honours option, you’ll undertake an independent research project under the supervision of a faculty member. The Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science holds an annual undergraduate research conference on UBC’s Okanagan campus to showcase student research projects.
Go Global
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science Undergraduate Research Awards
NSERC Undergraduate Student Research Awards
Tuum Est Student Initiative Fund
Campus features
The Department of Earth, Environmental and Geographic Sciences is home to a wide range of research facilities:
Fipke Laboratory for Trace Element Research (FiLTER)
, a multi-million dollar, state-of-the-art facility with equipment for major and trace element analysis and electron microbeam imaging
Okanagan Institute for Biodiversity, Resilience, and Ecosystem Services (BRAES)
, a collaborative research institute working in ecology, biodiversity and conservation, water conservation and quality, and environmental sustainability
In addition, individual faculty members have active research programs backed by modern laboratory facilities, including the
Complex Environmental Systems Lab
, the GIS Lab for Spatial Data Analysis, and the
PALEO Lab
.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
EESC 101 - Environmental Science
A quantitative and scientific approach to the understanding of global energy, water and nutrient cycling; growth of human populations and their effects on the environment and ecosystem function.  Functional understanding of modern environmental issues, and the requirements of, and opportunities for, sustainability.
EESC 111 - Earth Science
Origin, structure and composition of Earth. Plate tectonics as the unifying mechanism for mountain building, formation of ocean basins, and assembly and break-up of continents. Minerals, rocks, Earth surface processes, geological maps, natural resources and hazards.
BIOL 116 - Biology for Science Majors I
First of a pair of courses that introduce students to the biological concepts necessary to continue into second-year biology. Covers evolutionary theory and its underlying genetic basis, basic cell biology, plant and animal nutrition, and energy acquisition. Credit will be granted for only BIOL 116/125 or BIOL 117/122.
CHEM 113 - Principles of Chemistry II
General and ionic equilibrium, solubility, thermodynamics. Introductory organic chemistry: stereochemistry; substitution, elimination, and oxidation-reduction reactions. Not open to students with CHEM 121. This course or CHEM 123 is prerequisite to all subsequent courses in Chemistry.
EESC 205 - Introduction to Hydrology
Principles of hydrology at site, watershed, and regional scales. Techniques of measurement and analysis. Emphasizes surface water hydrology of western North America.
EESC 212 - Atmospheric Environments
Physical principles underlying weather and climates. Thermal, moisture, and wind climates at scales from valleys to the globe. Daily weather, air pollution, global change.
EESC 222 - Geomorphology
Landform assemblages and processes of landscape evolution on Earth. Fundamental concepts, including system equilibrium, thresholds, complex response to external forces, and scale dependency, with application to mountains, rivers, coasts, and glaciated terrain. Laboratory exercises require field work in lab time. Required one-day, weekend trip.
BIOL 201 - Introduction to Evolution and Ecology
Fundamental processes underlying adaptive evolution, speciation, and extinction. Methods used to reconstruct the evolutionary histories of, and relationships among, groups of organisms. Factors determining the distribution and abundance of organisms. Competition, predation, and an exploration of processes that promote species coexistence and lead to the maintenance of species diversity.
CHEM 211 - Analytical Chemistry
Statistical analysis and errors of measurement, method development and validation, solution equilibria as applied to analysis, analysis of acids and bases, analytical electrochemistry, chemical separation, introduction to gas and liquid chromatography.
EESC 301 - Limnology
Integrated approaches to freshwater science and its place in environmental science. Ecosystem ecology of inland waters relating to aquatic organisms with their physical and chemical environment. Participation in a one-day weekend field trip in September or early October is required.
EESC 309 - Global Biogeochemistry
Functional processes and reactions of our living planet. Cycles of materials and energy among the atmosphere, lithosphere, and terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems.  Case studies on the degradation of ecosystem function from anthropogenic alterations of natural cycles.
EESC 342 - Hydrogeology
Introduction to the theory of groundwater flow; flow nets; regional groundwater resource evaluation; well hydraulics; role of groundwater in geologic processes.
BIOL 375 - Flora and Fauna of Inland Waters
Introduction to major groups of organisms in inland waters. Cyanobacteria, algae, plants, and animals; their ecology and evolution; and their use in biomonitoring.
CHEM 301 - Aqueous Environmental Chemistry
Properties of natural waters, including gas and solid equilibria, pH, redox, complexation analysis, corrosion treatment, ion exchange, colloids, and microbial transformations.
EESC 402 - Freshwater Resources
Integrated approach to freshwater resources and their place in environmental science. Topical issues with emphasis on management options and consequences. Required field trips during lab times.
EESC 413 - Analytical Methods in Hydrology
Application of advanced analytical methods to hydrological data for watershed or water resource planning and management. Frequency analysis, storm design, regionalization, flow routing, geographic information systems (GIS) application, time series analysis and modelling.
EESC 423 - Tracers of Natural Processes
Stable and radiogenic isotopes in the lithosphere, hydrosphere, atmosphere and biosphere.  Fractionation processes, dating methods. Selected topics in the use of isotopic tracers.
EESC 435 - Fluvial Field Techniques
Field measurement and analysis techniques for assessment of fluvial systems. Channel morphology, flow hydraulics, sediment transport, flooding potential, habitat considerations, restoration methods. Twelve days of field instruction over a two week period following Winter Session Term 2 (spring) exams. Students must arrange their own transportation to/from field sites. A special fee must be paid in advance.
EESC 436 - Coastal Geomorphology
Geomorphic forms and processes along coasts; waves and currents; sediment transport mechanics; beach and nearshore morphodynamics; aeolian forms and processes. May include one or more required one-day weekend field trips.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Aerial view of UBC's Okanagan campus
Life at UBC's Okanagan campus
UBC's Okanagan campus is renowned for its research opportunities and access to professors. On a tight-knit campus like the Okanagan’s, you’ll be able to work closely with award-winning faculty and make meaningful connections with your peers. Join a club such as the Freshwater Science Course Union and connect with your fellow peers.
Find out more
Your future
You’ll graduate with the skills and knowledge necessary to deal with future national and international freshwater environmental problems concerning water quality and quantity. As a Freshwater Science graduate, you could work as a water quality specialist, a hydrologist, a water stewardship officer, or an aquatic ecologist.
Program graduates
Regional Hydrogeologist, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
Environmental Consultant, Indigenous and Northern Affairs Canada
Senior Aquatic Ecologist, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
Water Stewardship Director, Okanagan Basin Water Board
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics is strongly recommended
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life
Read admissions blog post
Meet Nagi, a Biology major and Collegia assistant on UBC's Okanagan campus
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC