Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/gender-race-sexuality-social-justice/

Gender, Race, Sexuality, and Social Justice
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
This program incorporates research and theories from the social sciences, humanities, science, education and law, to provide you with an interdisciplinary understanding of global and local social justice issues. Areas of study include: critical race theory, ethnic studies, indigenous studies, media studies, feminist politics and methodologies, sexuality, and more.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Gender, race, sexuality and social justice is an exciting interdisciplinary field of study that also draws upon several traditional disciplines. It has its own texts, journals, and methodologies.
In many disciplines some of the most innovative scholarly work in theory and research is being done by gender, race, sexuality, and social justice specialists, and the interdisciplinary nature of this scholarship is an important feature of its success and promise.
Institute for Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice
Campus features
The Institute for Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice at UBC offers courses in an open and mutually supportive atmosphere. The program has more than 90 well-qualified faculty and faculty associates from many departments and programs, whose expertise includes gender and development, critical studies in sexuality, decolonizing and post-colonial methodologies, race, gender and cultural studies (including Asian cultural studies), critical race theory, gender and Canadian history and literature (in English and French), transgender studies, gender issues in health, and feminist legal studies. The program aims to maintain flexibility to accommodate the needs of individual students.
Institute for Gender, Race, Sexuality, and Social Justice
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
GRSJ 101 - Introduction to Social Justice
An overview of intersectional feminist debates and theoretical traditions.
GRSJ 102 - Global Issues in Social Justice
Intersectional feminist theory and practice, focusing on contemporary issues in a transnational context.
ANTH 213 - Sex, Gender, and Culture
An anthropological exploration of how understandings of sex and gender are culturally and historically shaped.
GRSJ 200 - Gender and Environmental Justice
An interdisciplinary and cross-cultural overview of contemporary environmental issues, as they relate to gender equality and social justice challenges and initiatives that respond to ecological crises.
GRSJ 230 - Gender, Race, Sexuality, and Representation in Modern Asia
The complex relationships between mechanisms of power, gender, and representation in Asia in different spaces examined through an interdisciplinary lens.
GRSJ 235 - Gender, Race, Sexuality, and Social Structures in Modern Asia
Situates “Asia” in a global context and explores the complex relationships between gender, social structures, and social change.
GRSJ 307 - Gender, Race, Sexuality, and Popular Culture
Critical examination of mainstream and alternative media images of gender, race, and sexuality in the context of networked social media, film, music, and television.
GRSJ 310 - Gender, Race, Social Justice and Health
Interdisciplinary introduction to gender and health issues using selected theoretical frameworks.
GRSJ 300 - Intersectional Approaches to Thinking Gender
Interdisciplinary exploration of the multiple intersections between gender and (neo)colonialism, racism, poverty, ableism, and heterosexism in a globalized world; historical and cross-cultural aspects, and the social construction of sex and gender, masculinity and femininity.
GRSJ 303 - Gender, Race, Social Justice and the Law
A survey of feminist legal thought and recent developments in feminism and law, with a focus on Canada.
GRSJ 307 - Gender, Race, Sexuality, and Popular Culture
Critical examination of mainstream and alternative media images of gender, race, and sexuality in the context of networked social media, film, music, and television.
GRSJ 311 - African/Black Women in the Americas
An interdisciplinary survey of gender studies and histories of African/Black women in the Americas from the beginning of the slave trade to the present.
GRSJ 401 - Body, Gender and Society
An interdisciplinary examination of the body, exploring how social relations and space are implicated in the constitution and experience of gendered bodies and identities, with an emphasis on feminist analyses of body-societal relations.
GRSJ 480 - Decolonizing Praxis: A Practicum in Social Justice
Connects feminist and critical race theory and practice through placement in a community organization. As is the case with all UBC practice-related courses, this course requires a Criminal Record Check. Open to GRSJ Majors or Minors. This course is graded
Your future
Your career opportunities will vary widely across a range of fields including government or politics, non-profit, media, health or social services, human rights, law, human resources, education, and others.
There are many career paths that can combine your academics, skills, and experience with your different interests, including:
Charitable organization director
Child and youth worker
Child welfare policy analyst
Communications manager
Community development worker
Diversity consultant
Employment counsellor
Media relations manager
News analyst
Policy advisor
Careers with Gender, Race, Sexuality, and Social Justice
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Syahidah, and find out how she stays connected to her Singapore roots at UBC
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC