Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/general-science/

General Science
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Get a strong foundation in the sciences with the opportunity to specialize in two or three specific subjects. The General Science program is appropriate if you plan to continue studying in professional areas such as post-secondary education, business administration, dentistry, law, medicine, or veterinary medicine.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
General Science provides a comprehensive undergraduate science education with the opportunity for concentration in two or three of the following subject areas: Chemistry, Earth & Environmental Sciences, Life Science, Mathematical Sciences, and Physics. The program is appropriate if you plan to continue study in professional areas (such as business administration, medicine, law, or education), and do not intend to pursue graduate studies in science.
What can you do with this major after graduation?
Career options with General Science
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
CHEM 111 - Principles of Chemistry I
Stoichiometry, atomic and molecular structure, chemical periodicity, gases, liquids, solids, and solutions. Not open to students with Chemistry 12.
BIOL 104 - Concepts of Biology: An Aboriginal Perspective
Introduction to core biology concepts employing an Aboriginal perspective of cyclical analysis and synthesis. Scientific method, energy acquisition, cell structure and function, genetics, evolution and diversity. degree.
EESC 121 - Earth History
Origin of rocks, oceans, atmosphere and the record of life on Earth. Scientific methods of studying Earth history. Geologic time, dating methods, the stratigraphic record.  Organic evolution, the fossil record, and extinctions.
COSC 101 - Digital Citizenship
Provides knowledge and skills to navigate the digital society. The importance of digital participation will be investigated by studying issues surrounding digital access, skills, and utilization. Digital literacy is emphasized through the exploration of computer applications, the use of converging technologies, and online resources. This course does not assume students have any Computer Science background.
MATH 111 - Finite Mathematics
Intended for students not majoring in Mathematics or the Sciences who want some exposure to mathematical thinking. Logic, set theory, combinatorics, probability theory, matrix algebra, linear programming, graphs, and networks. This course cannot be taken for credit towards a B.Sc. degree.
CHEM 210 - Physical Chemistry for Earth, Environmental, and Life Sciences
Intended for students in earth, environmental, and life sciences. Thermodynamics and kinetics as they apply to natural systems. This course cannot be used for credit by Chemistry Majors.
STAT 240 - Statistical Reasoning
Simple and multiple linear regression, calibration, nonlinear regression, analysis of variance, factorial experiments, nonparametric methods, and basic quality control charts.
PHYS 232 - Modern Physics Laboratory
Selected experiments in relativity, quantum mechanics, thermodynamics, particle physics or nuclear physics. Quantitative analysis of data, methods of measurement, formal presentation of laboratory results.
PSYO 241 - Personality
Focuses on a variety of personality theories including psychoanalytic, behaviouristic, cognitive, humanistic, and trait perspectives. Methods of research and critical analysis of theoretical foundations and research.
BIOL 265 - Principles of Genetics
Mendelian genetics, gene expression, recombination, mutation, evolution, and molecular techniques. Examples will be drawn from both eukaryotic and prokaryotic systems.
DATA 301 - Introduction to Data Analytics
Techniques for computation, analysis, and visualization of data using software. Manipulation of small and large data sets. Automation using scripting. Real-world applications from life sciences, physical sciences, economics, engineering, or psychology. No prior computing background is required.
BIOC 307 - Enology I
Chemistry and biochemistry of winemaking (enology) and grape-growing (viticulture) including development of the important major constituents of a wine; ethanol, acids, sugars, and colour; the subtle aspects of the aroma; odour-active compounds and how they form; and the effects of storing a wine in oak barrels.
CHEM 322 - Methods in Forensic Chemical Analysis
Concepts in the forensic chemical analysis of materials. Sampling protocols, sample preparation and clean up, instrumental techniques, chemical tracers, chemical fingerprinting, drug and toxin analysis, complex statistical analysis. Specific case studies with emphasis on environmental forensic issues will be presented.
EESC 313 - Management of Forested Watersheds
Effects of watershed management on water quality and quantity, channel morphology, in-stream wood, and aquatic habitat.  Emphasizing integrated land use management and the maintenance of critical watershed functions and services.
COSC 419 - Topics in Computer Science
Advanced or specialized topics in computer science. Consult the unit for the specific topic to be offered in any given year.
STAT 406 - Environmetrics
Foundation of the use of statistical concepts and methods in environmental science and management. Scientific problem-solving using statistical methods. Integration of the formulation of objectives, study design, and quantitative methods appropriate for the design. The role and use of statistical software packages.
BIOC 407 - The Biochemical Basis of Disease
Draws on foundational knowledge of normal biochemistry. Inborn errors of metabolism, abnormal growth and metabolism, neurodegeneration and inappropriate protein folding, deficiency diseases, endocrine disorders, and cardiovascular and hematological disorders.
DATA 421 - Network Science
Graphs and complex networks in scientific research. Probabilistic and statistical models. Structures, patterns, and behaviors in networks. Algorithmic and statistical methods. (online/mobile) social networks and social media platforms. Social influence, information diffusion, and viral marketing. Sentiment analysis and opinion mining. Data privacy. Search engines and recommendation systems.
BIOL 414 - Advanced Field Ecology
Independent research projects in the field, while considering application of methods to solving problems in ecology. Study design, hypothesis development, primary data collection, analysis, and interpretation; formal manuscripts for publication.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics is strongly recommended
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life
Read admissions blog post
Meet Nathan, and find out why his choice to attend UBC was an easy one
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC