Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/geography/

Geography
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Explore human and physical landscapes and their interconnections on the surface of the earth. Geography is a unique academic discipline because of its ability to integrate ideas and methods from many disciplines. It also concerns "spatial" or areal patterns, relationships and processes on the Earth's surface, and a focus on environmental studies.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Find out more
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Geography is the study of human and physical landscapes on the surface of the earth, integrating ideas and methods from many different disciplines. Part of the Community, Culture, and Global Studies (CCGS) academic unit, the program emphasizes the development of theory and methodology, as well as the practical application of geographical concepts to environmental, economic, social, and cultural issues at global and local scales, and issues pertinent to southern British Columbia and Canada.
In the degree program, you’ll complete course requirements in both physical geography, and the broad range of human geography study.
Experiential learning and research
Your coursework offers opportunities to visit Kelowna-area field locations, including studying mountain hazards at a facility in the Canadian Cordillera. In third or fourth year you can undertake a supervised investigation as part of a directed studies course, which will result in a written report of your findings. The Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science holds an annual undergraduate research conference on UBC’s Okanagan campus to showcase student research projects.
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science Undergraduate Research Awards
What can you do with this major after graduation?
Career options with Geography
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
GEOG 108 - Introduction to Physical Geography I
Principles and processes that govern the functions of the atmosphere, hydrosphere, and biosphere. Interactions between these environmental systems and human activity.
GEOG 109 - Introduction to Physical Geography II
Principles and processes that govern the functions of the Earth's lithosphere and terrestrial geomorphology. Interactions between the lithospheric system and human activity.
GEOG 128 - Human Geography: Space, Place, and Community
Critical introduction to the study and application of the major themes of human geography, including historical, regional, urban, social, and cultural geographies. Draws upon a range of geographic research methods to investigate geographic phenomena, especially human-environment relations. Not for Science credit.
GEOG 129 - Human Geography: Resources, Development, and Society
Introduction to concepts, methods, modes of explanation, and recent critical changes in the study of human geography. Interpretation and explanation of geographic variations arising within contexts of rapidly changing cultural, demographic, economic, political, and social phenomena and their relationship to the environment. Not for Science credit.
GEOG 271 - Geographic Data Analysis
Introduction to descriptive and inferential statistical analysis in geography and Earth sciences. Topics include descriptive statistics, elementary probability, statistics for spatial analysis, hypotheses testing, analysis of variance, correlation, and regression.
GEOG 272 - Cartography and Remote Sensing
Cartographic skills and interpretation of remotely-sensed data for geographical applications. Themes include: history of cartography; map scale; projections; types of maps; map interpretation; map making; manipulating cartographic data; interpreting aerial photographs and satellite imagery; integrating maps, remotely sensed data, and geographic information systems.
GEOG 200 - Atmospheric Environments
Physical principles underlying weather and climates. Thermal, moisture, and wind climates at scales from valleys to the globe. Daily weather, air pollution, global change.
GEOG 207 - Introduction to Biogeography
Geographical ecology emphasizing species distributions, abiotic-biotic interactions, disturbance and vegetation response, and human impacts across spatial scales. Vegetation sampling and analysis methods.
GEOG 301 - Mechanisms of Global Change
Natural variability of climatic and environmental processes occurring at geological, historical, and contemporary timescales. Data derivation and analysis methods. Environmental changes affecting human activities.
GEOG 307 - Advanced Biogeography
Present distribution and diversity of plants and animals; factors underlying the development of modern biogeographic realms; dispersal, colonization, and invasion; prehistoric and modern evolution and extinction; biodiversity; island biogeography; conservation biogeography.
GEOG 317 - The Physical Environment of British Columbia
The biophysical processes that are shaping and have shaped B.C.  Characteristic associations between landforms, climate, soil, and vegetation; biophysical constraints on air, land, and water use.
GEOG 351 - Urban Social Geography
Introduction to the social geographies of cities. Draws on critical social and cultural theories. Gentrification, racialization in the city, gendered spaces, class segregation, urban form, and cultural geographies of urban life.
GEOG 310 - Environment and Resources
Concepts of environment and resource; the role of physical geography in understanding the interaction of humans and the environment; introduction to the management of environment-resource systems.
GEOG 414 - Applied Climatology
Microclimatology and synoptic climatology, Earth-atmosphere interactions, and climatic impacts on human activities. Energy and mass transfers at Earth's surface; boundary layer climatology and its applications to airflow and pollution dispersion, climate modelling, general circulation models.
GEOG 436 - Coastal Geomorphology
Geomorphic forms and processes along coasts; waves and currents; sediment transport mechanics; beach and nearshore morphodynamics; aeolian forms and processes. May include one or more required one-day weekend field trips.
GEOG 437 - Terrain Analysis
Identification, mapping, and quantification of terrain morphologies in the field and from remote sensing following professional codes of practice. Twelve days of field instruction over a two week period following spring exams. Students must arrange own transportation to/from field locations.
GEOG 423 - Development of Environmental Thought
An examination of attitudes that have influenced land use and environmental change in the past and present.
GEOG 435 - Wine Geographies
Geographical expressions and processes of wine, viniculture, and viticulture. Appellation and terroir frame investigation of the nature-human interface in wine production and consumption. Geographic approaches include cultural history, global and localized political economies, cultural adaptation to climate, and physical geography.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
UBC stories
"As someone who is interested in the humanities and social sciences, an Arts degree at UBC was perfect for me as it allowed me to broaden my knowledge through a variety of different classes, while gaining the necessary requirements for my career goals and graduate school."
Danielle G., Bachelor of Arts, Geography
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life
Read admissions blog post
Meet Daniel, a Geography student who studied abroad in Australia and England
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC