Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/geographical-sciences/

Geographical Sciences
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Study the fundamental interactions between life – including human societies – and the Earth's atmosphere, hydrosphere, and geosphere. You'll build on a broad base in the basic sciences by completing course in areas such as biogeography, climatology, geographic information science, geomorphology, or hydrology.
Why this program?
UBC’s Department of Geography is ranked in the world’s top 10 academic departments.
Participate in field research in nearly all upper-level courses to prepare for a career in the geosciences.
You'll have the option of a combined honours degree in climatology or geology.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The Geographical Sciences program focuses on the fundamental interactions between life – including human societies – and the Earth’s atmosphere, hydrosphere, and geosphere. You will build a strong foundation in geosciences disciplines by completing at least two of five upper-year concentrations in biogeography, climatology, geographic information science, geomorphology, or hydrology.
For interests in environmental, cultural-historical, urban, economic, or regional geography, the BA program (with majors in Environment and Sustainability, and Human Geography) is appropriate. Technical courses are incorporated into both the BA and BSc programs.
Experiential learning and research
Field-based research is an integral component of the Geographical Sciences specialization. You will take field trips in nearly all upper-level courses and complete technical training.
Campus features
The Department of Geography has cartographic, computing, and technical services as well as computer labs specifically for the use of undergraduate students.
Send details
Why this program?
UBC’s Department of Geography is ranked in the world’s top 10 academic departments.
Participate in field research in nearly all upper-level courses to prepare for a career in the geosciences.
You'll have the option of a combined honours degree in climatology or geology.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
GEOB 102 - Our Changing Environment: Climate and Ecosystems
Energy and water in the Earth-Atmosphere system, global climates and climate change, ecosystem properties and processes, human impacts. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414. [3-2*-0]
GEOB 103 - Our Changing Environment: Water and Landscapes
Physical processes acting at the Earth's surface; water cycle; landforms; human impacts. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414. [3-2*-0]
CHEM 121 - Structure and Bonding in Chemistry
Fundamentals of bonding theories and structural chemistry, with applications relevant to modern society. [3-3-0]
Prerequisite:
CHEM 12.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414. [3-0-0]
Prerequisite:
High-school calculus and one of (a) a score of 80% or higher in BC Principles of Mathematics 12 or Pre-calculus 12, or (b) a satisfactory score in the UBC Mathematics Basic Skills Test.
GEOB 200 - Atmospheric Environments
Physical principles underlying weather and climates. Thermal, moisture and wind climates at scales from valleys to the globe. Daily weather, air pollution, global change. Credit will be given for one only of GEOB 200, 204, GEOG 200, 204, AGRO 244. [3-2*-0]
Prerequisite:
One of GEOG 102, GEOB 102 or first-year science.
GEOB 206 - Geomorphic Processes and Hazards
Earth surface processes shaping the landscape; identification of hazards and hazardous areas associated with these processes; introduction to techniques for measurement and analysis at various spatial and time scales; field trips are required. [3-2*-0]
Prerequisite:
One of GEOB 103, EOSC 110, PHYS 101, PHYS 107, PHYS 153, SCIE 001.
GEOB 207 - Introduction to Biogeography
Geographical ecology emphasizing plant distributions, abiotic-biotic interactions, effects of disturbance, succession, and human impacts across scales. Labs and field trips examine a local site. [3-2*-0]
Prerequisite:
One of GEOG 102, GEOB 102 and one of GEOG 103, GEOB 103.
GEOB 270 - Geographic Information Science
Computer-based graphical methods of data input and analysis. Emphasis on data visualization techniques such as cartographic modelling and exploratory data analysis. Preclusion: Not available to those who completed GEOG 370 before September 2005. [2-2-0]
GEOG 211 - The State of the Earth
The demographic, economic, ecological, and technological factors that underlie current environmental challenges, considering their effects to date and their possible impact in the future.
Prerequisite:
One of GEOB 102, GEOB 103. GEOG 121, GEOG 122 recommended.  Second-year standing.
GEOB 309 - Geographical Sciences Field Course
Field sampling, instrumentation, surveying, mapping techniques, and data analysis; mandatory multi-day field camp in April or May. Special fees and liability insurance are required.
This course is not eligible for Credit/D/Fail grading.
[0-3-0]
Prerequisite:
One of BIOL 230, GEOB 207 and one of GEOB 200, GEOB 204.
Corequisite:
One of GEOB 206, EOSC 330.
GEOG 374 - Statistics in Geography
Introduction to statistical techniques and their application to geographical problems. Priority enrolment for honours and major students in Geography. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
ATSC 303 - Methods in Atmospheric Science
An introduction to instrumentation used in monitoring the state of the atmosphere; a brief survey of methods of analysis of meteorological data. [2-2-0]
Prerequisite:
EOSC 211 and one of ATSC 201, GEOB 200.
GEOG 318 - Sustainability in a Changing Environment
Biophysical and human causes of short- and long-term environmental change at various spatial scales, including measurement, interpretation, and policy.
Prerequisite:
GEOG 310.
GEOB 408 - Snow and Ice Processes
Formation of snow and ice masses and their evolution including snowpacks, glaciers, and ice sheets. Relationships between snow, ice, and climate including glacier dynamics and avalanche forecasting. Weekend field trip. [3-0-0]
Prerequisite:
One of PHYS 101, PHYS 107, PHYS 153, SCIE 001 and one of GEOB 305, GEOB 308.
GEOB 407 - Vegetation Dynamics: Disturbance, Climate and Human Impacts
Investigation of vegetation dynamics integrating theory and research to address contemporary issues of global environmental change. Students will conduct fieldwork and learn to analyze data and interpret results. [2-3-0]
Prerequisite:
One of BIOL 230, GEOB 207, FRST 201.
GEOB 472 - Research in Cartography
Use of cartography in primary research applications. Discussion of contemporary topics in cognitive, social, and technical cartography and data visualization. [3-2*-0]
Prerequisite:
One of GEOB 270, GEOB 372.
GEOB 409 - Self-Directed Field Studies in Physical Geography
Advanced research design, field sampling methods, instrumentation, surveying, mapping techniques, data analysis and management; self-directed fieldwork; 1 lecture per week during term and a multi-day field camp in April or May. [2-0-0]
Prerequisite:
GEOB 309. Third-year standing in Geographical Biogeosciences Major.
ENVR 410 - Energy, Environment, and Society
The role of energy in human societies throughout history and the environmental and social implications of energy use.  Coverage of both the science and policy of energy use.  Energy supply and demand, energy transitions, analytical tools, impacts, and alternatives. [3-0-0]
Prerequisite:
Fourth-year standing in B.Sc., B.A.Sc. or related programs.
Follow this program
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Geography Building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
The Geography Building is home to both the Geographical Sciences BSc and Geography BA programs. Along with classrooms, the building is home to the Geographic Information Centre, undergraduate student lounge and computer labs.
Find out more
Your future
A BSc in Geographical Sciences can lead to employment as a geological technician, geoscientist, surveyor, environmental consultant, cartographer, or GIS specialist. The specialization equips you with the knowledge necessary for success in fields related to geographic science.
With appropriately selected electives, this degree forms a suitable basis for completing the academic requirements for registration as a professional geoscientist, which is legally required of all people practising geoscience in Canada.
Program graduates
Senior technical systems analyst, Provincial Health Services Authority
Geospatial analyst and cartographer, Roy Northern Land and Environmental
GIS and air photograph specialist, UBC Geographic Information Centre
Geography laboratory technician, Douglas College
Air quality specialist, WSP in Canada
Master of Urban Planning student, McGill University
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry, and
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Daniel, a Geography student who studied abroad in Australia and England
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC