Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/geology/

Geology
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Geology is the study of planet Earth, its origin and evolution, its fundamental structure, the properties of minerals, rocks, and fluids of which it is composed, and the evolution of its biosphere. Studying geology at UBC's Vancouver campus is an opportunity to live and work in a beautiful natural geological laboratory, literally at your doorstep.
Why this program?
UBC has strong connections with many of the 1,200 mineral exploration companies based in BC.
Technical electives enable you to gain designation with the Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of BC.
UBC is one of the world’s top-ranked universities in environmental sciences.
Live, study, and work with British Columbia’s geological laboratory at your doorstep.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Geology involves integrating many aspects of the physical and natural sciences to unravel the history and dynamics of our planet throughout geological time. Geologists are explorers and work outdoors in the remarkable natural laboratory that are planet presents.
Experiential learning and field work are key components to your geology education at UBC. The Faculty of Science offers a Major in Geology and a Geological Sciences Honours specialization. Both are designed to provide the courses required for professional accreditation and both allow for the pursuit of careers in the private sector, government, and post-graduate education. The honours specialization includes the opportunity to conduct independent research in your final year supervised by a faculty member; research projects of variable length are also available through directed studies for major students.
Undergraduate Students of EOS
Campus features
UBC’s Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences is one of the largest and most diverse departments of its kind in the world. Housed in a spectacular new building at the heart of the UBC academic campus, it operates many major geological research facilities, including the Pacific Centre for Isotopic & Geochemical Research and the Mineral Deposit Research Unit, and is also home the Pacific Museum of the Earth, which is open to the public.
Pacific Museum of the Earth
Pacific Centre for Isotopic and Geochemical Research
Mineral Deposit Research Unit
Send details
Why this program?
UBC has strong connections with many of the 1,200 mineral exploration companies based in BC.
Technical electives enable you to gain designation with the Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of BC.
UBC is one of the world’s top-ranked universities in environmental sciences.
Live, study, and work with British Columbia’s geological laboratory at your doorstep.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
CHEM 121 - Structure and Bonding in Chemistry
Fundamentals of bonding theories and structural chemistry, with applications relevant to modern society.
EOSC 110 - The Solid Earth: A Dynamic Planet
Earth's origin, composition, structure, and natural resources. Plate tectonics as the driving force for volcanism, mountain building, and earthquakes.  Imaging Earth's interior. Environmental geoscience and sustainability. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list for the Faculty of Science section of  the Calendar.)
EOSC 111 - Laboratory Exploration of Planet Earth
An examination of the processes that shape and change the planet earth.  This laboratory course accompanies any of EOSC 110, EOSC 112, EOSC 114, EOSC 116.  Course content is customizable at the individual student level.
EOSC 116 - Mesozoic Earth: Time of the Dinosaurs
Earth's tectonics, climate, and oceans during the time of the dinosaurs.  Reading the fossil record of Earth from its earliest origins up to and including the Mesozoic, 250 - 65 million years ago.
PHYS 118 - Electricity, Light and Radiation
Optics, electricity and magnetism, electric circuits, radioactivity, including biological applications. Please consult the Faculty of Science credit exclusion list: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
EOSC 222 - Geological Time and Stratigraphy
Measuring geological time and understanding Earth history using stratigraphic principles, paleontology and radioactive decay.
EOSC 211 - Computer Methods in Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences
Mathematical computer-based problem solving in the physical, chemical, and biological sciences. Problems drawn from studies of the earth, the oceans and the atmosphere.
EOSC 221 - Introductory Petrology
Optical mineralogy and the classification and genesis of igneous, metamorphic and sedimentary rocks.
EOSC 220 - Introductory Mineralogy
Introduction to crystallography, physical and chemical properties of minerals. Recognition and identification of common minerals.
EOSC 223 - Field Techniques
Introduction to the techniques of geological mapping and the interpretation of field data. Includes three one-day field trips on weekends plus a seven-day field school after Spring examinations. A fee is to be paid by January 31.
EOSC 328 - Field Geology
Recording and processing geological data in the field. Held within the three weeks following April examinations after third year. A special fee is to be paid by January 31.
EOSC 333 - Elemental and Isotopic Geochemistry
Analytical methods in geochemistry, major and trace element geochemistry, radiogenic isotopes, geochemistry of seawater, the mantle, basalts, subduction zones, sedimentary rocks, continental crust.
EOSC 320 - Sedimentology
Origin, diagenesis and geochemistry of sediments and sedimentary rocks.
EOSC 332 - Tectonic Evolution of North America
An overview of the geology and tectonic evolution of North America; comparisons and contrasts between Precambrian rocks of the North American craton and Phanerozoic belts of the Cordilleran, Appalachian, Ouachita and Innuitian orogens;  interrelations between sedimentation, deformation, metamorphism and magmatism in a plate tectonic context.
EOSC 323 - Structural Geology I
Analysis and interpretation of natural deformation.
EOSC 420 - Volcanology
Field and lab-based studies in volcanology concentrating on physical and chemical aspects of volcanic processes.
EOSC 425 - Paleontology
Paleobiogeography in the context of plate tectonics. Mass extinction events. Fossilization and biases in the fossil record. Species concepts in paleontology. Biostratigraphy. Paleontological evidence for early life; the colonization of oceanic and terrestrial environments and; the evolution of the primates.
EOSC 424 - Advanced Mineral Deposits
Advanced concepts in the processes that lead to the formation of mineral deposits. Introduction to the study of ore minerals using reflected light microscopy.
EOSC 422 - Structural Geology II
Studies of natural deformation using advanced techniques.
EOSC 432 - Fossil Fuels
Origin, geochemistry and distribution of petroleum and coal in the stratigraphic record. Sedimentation of organic matter, organic diagenesis, migration and accumulation of hydrocarbons. Principles of exploration and development. Techniques for measurement of organic maturation and source rock analyses.
Follow this program
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
UBC Earth Sciences Building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Built in 2012 to LEED Gold construction standards, the Earth Sciences building is home to the Department of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences. It houses the department’s cluster computers for numerical weather and climate simulations, weather-instrument platform for research and teaching, modern labs for oceanographic research, wet labs, and two computer lab classrooms for undergraduate student use.
Find out more
Your future
Geologists are valued and highly skilled professionals with extensive geoscience knowledge, strong logistical and operational skills in the field and laboratory, and the ability to work in multi-disciplinary teams with the latest in modern technology and information. Geologists play a key role in society for their expertise in the changing Earth over geological time, natural resource and hazard assessment, science policy, and environmental issues. With a UBC education in Geology, you will be highly placed for the increasingly diverse array of jobs available for geoscience graduates.
Program graduates
Graduate geologist in-training, Shell Canada Ltd.
Geological field assistant, Yukon Geological Survey
Project geologist, C.J. Greig & Associates
Geologist, Equity Exploration Consultants Ltd.
Environmental geoscientist, Lorax Environmental Services Ltd.
PhD candidate in Volcanology, Nanyang Technological University
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry, and
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Joseph, an Engineering student who used co-op to gain experience and try out career paths
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC