Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/geological-engineering/

Geological Engineering
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Geological engineers assess the physical landscapes where dams, mines, roads, pipelines, railways, forestry, and other extractive operations are planned. Geological Engineering prepares you for an exciting career that often involves travel and on-site investigations in far-flung locales, as well as exposure to state-of-the-art engineering tools.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Applied Science (Engineering)
Degree:
Bachelor of Applied Science (Engineering)
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Geological Engineering is an interdisciplinary program housed in the Faculty of Science, but leading to the Bachelor of Applied Science of the engineering Faculty of Applied Science. Our research and teaching interests span virtually all aspects of understanding the history and dynamics of our planet, as well as management of its resources and the environment we live in. This program focuses on many important aspects of geotechnology, including construction, environmental protection, transportation, energy and water supply, mining, natural hazards management, and governmental oversight.
Campus features
UBC’s Earth, Ocean & Atmospheric Sciences (which incorporates Geology, Geophysics & Oceanography) is one of the largest and most diverse departments of its kind in the world. The Pacific Museum of the Earth is open to the public.
Pacific Museum of the Earth
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
APSC 100 - Introduction to Engineering I
An introduction to the engineering profession including: roles and responsibilities of the engineer, the engineering disciplines, sustainability, an introduction to the engineering design process, introduction and application of the relevant foundational scientific principles, prototyping, engineering graphics, technical communication, and engineering ethics.
CHEM 154 - Chemistry for Engineering
Chemical bonding, properties of matter. Chemical thermodynamics with applications to phase equilibria, aqueous equilibria and electrochemistry. Processes at surfaces.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
PHYS 157 - Introductory Physics for Engineers I
Heat, thermodynamics, oscillations, waves, and sound.
PHYS 170 - Mechanics I
Statics of particles, equilibrium or rigid bodies, rigid body statics and internal forces, trusses; kinematics: rectilinear motion; dynamics:  Newton's second law, friction, impulse, momentum, work and energy.
APSC 201 - Technical Communication
Written and oral communication in engineering. Report preparation, business correspondence, and oral presentation of technical material.
CIVL 210 - Soil Mechanics I
Soil classification, principle of effective stress, analysis of seepage, filter criteria, introduction to shear strength and slope stability analysis.
EOSC 213 - Computational Methods in Geological Engineering
Combining basic physical principles with their mathematical description and generating computational models that describe them. Introduction to basic building blocks in modeling, simulation and parameter estimation.
CIVL 231 - Solid Mechanics II
Deflection of beams, combined axial load and bending moment, inelastic bending, plastic analysis of structures, beam-columns, buckling (stability), principal axes and principal moments of inertia, biaxial stress and strain, Mohr’s circle.
EOSC 221 - Introductory Petrology
Optical mineralogy and the classification and genesis of igneous, metamorphic and sedimentary rocks.
MINE 303 - Rock Mechanics Fundamentals
The study of the mechanical and structural properties of rock materials at the laboratory and field level. The relevance of such studies to common mining, geological and civil engineering problems.
EOSC 330 - Principles of Geomorphology
Landform development; morphological and historical analysis of landforms; applications in engineering and resource development.
CIVL 311 - Soil Mechanics II
One-dimensional compression and stress-strain response of soils with application to estimation of the settlements and capacities of foundations and of retaining walls.
CIVL 316 - Hydrology and Open Channel Flow
Introduction to open channel hydraulics, engineering hydrology, and water resource systems; estimation of design discharge; flood statistics; nonuniform steady open channel flow; energy and momentum principles, backwater analysis; culvert and bridge hydraulics.
EOSC 329 - Groundwater Hydrology
Introduction to theory of groundwater flow; flow nets; regional groundwater resource evaluation; well hydraulics; role of groundwater in geologic processes.
EOSC 434 - Geological Engineering Practice II - Soil Engineering
Application of geomorphology, hydrogeology, and soil mechanics to geotechnical design. Influence and treatment of geological uncertainty in geotechnical hazard and risk assessments; multi-disciplinary approaches to geotechnical engineering problems in realistically complex geological environments. Case histories.
CIVL 402 - Professionalism and Law in Civil Engineering
The Engineers and Geoscientists Act; professional ethics, conflicts of interest, confidentiality and accountability; health and safety; sustainable development and environmental stewardship; equity considerations; design and construction contracts, specifications and tendering; labour and employment law; dispute resolution; evidence and expert witnesses; torts and legal liability.
CIVL 411 - Foundation Engineering II
Aspects of Geotechnical Engineering. Design considerations illustrated by case histories pertinent to BC. Topics include: site investigation, terrain analyses, in situ testing, groundwater problems, deep foundations, tie back walls and bracing, tailings impoundments, Northern construction, ground ice, dikes and dams engineering. Many case histories presented in part by prominent consulting engineers in BC.
EOSC 350 - Environmental, Geotechnical, and Exploration Geophysics I
Principles of geophysical survey design, data acquisition, processing and interpretation with emphasis on near-surface problems. Magnetic, seismic reflection/refraction, electromagnetic and ground penetrating radar surveys. Case history analysis of environmental and geotechnical problems.
EOSC 445 - Engineering Design Project
Geological engineering design project from scope definition to final design.  Based on a problem from industry.
Your future
Your career opportunities will vary widely across a range of fields including civil design, environmental protection and control, mineral and energy exploration, pipeline development and planning, public utilities, water resource management, natural hazard mitigation, and others.
Careers in Geological Engineering
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Applied Science (Engineering)
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
IB Chemistry
IB Physics
Academically strong candidates missing either IB Chemistry or IB Physics may be evaluated on a case-by-case basis
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life on Snapchat
Read admissions blog post
Meet Joseph, an Engineering student who used co-op to gain experience and try out career paths
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC