Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/geophysics/

Geophysics
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Geophysics is an interdisciplinary physical science of the planets and their environments, in particular the Earth. Geophysics applies the knowledge and techniques of physics, mathematics, and chemistry to understand planetary structure, dynamic behaviour, and evolution through time.
Why this program?
Get an in-depth background in geophysics and computational and data analysis.
Study at one of the world’s top-ranked universities in environmental sciences.
UBC houses the Geophysical Inversion Facility, which carries out research on geophysical inverse theory.
UBC has strong connections with many of the 1,200 mineral exploration companies based in BC.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Geophysics is an interdisciplinary physical science that applies the knowledge and techniques of physics, mathematics, and chemistry to understanding the structure, subsurface, and dynamic behaviour of the earth and its environment. Science electives are normally selected from Geophysics, Mathematics, Physics, Geology, Astronomy, Oceanography, and Chemistry courses. An honours program in Geophysics is suited to students seeking to do research in the field.
As Geophysicists typically work in teams, this specialization helps prepare you for future employment through seminars and student projects designed to help you perfect your communication skills and ability to work in groups.
Campus features
UBC is home to the Mineral Deposit Research Unit (MDRU), a geological and geophysical research program at UBC that helps train students for employment in the mineral exploration industry, and the Geophysical Inversion Facility (GIF), which is concerned with the development and application of geophysical forward modelling and inversion methodologies. The Pacific Museum of the Earth is open to students.
Complicated and intricate visualization of the Earth’s interior is an important element of the geophysicist’s job. You’ll have access to the Earth Science Building’s state-of-the-art computing and imaging technologies as part of their geophysical labs.
Send details
Why this program?
Get an in-depth background in geophysics and computational and data analysis.
Study at one of the world’s top-ranked universities in environmental sciences.
UBC houses the Geophysical Inversion Facility, which carries out research on geophysical inverse theory.
UBC has strong connections with many of the 1,200 mineral exploration companies based in BC.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
MATH 101 - Integral Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
The definite integral, integration techniques, applications, modeling, infinite series.
PHYS 107 - Enriched Physics 1
Classical mechanics including conservation laws, angular momentum of rigid bodies and simple harmonic motion, wave phenomena, with an introduction to special relativity, quantum mechanics, nuclear physics, statistical mechanics and solid state physics. Please consult the Faculty of Science credit exclusion lists: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414
PHYS 108 - Enriched Physics II
Electricity and magnetism, electrical circuits, induction, electromagnetic waves, Maxwell's equations and applications. Please consult the Faculty of Science credit exclusion lists: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414
CHEM 123 - Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Organic Chemistry
Fundamentals of chemical reactivity: thermodynamics; kinetics; organic chemistry, including stereochemistry; applications relevant to modern society.
EOSC 250 - Fields and Fluxes
Application of classical theory of scalar and vector fields to geophysical sciences. Conductive, convective and radiative energy flux, gravitation, electrostatics, and magnetostatics. Gauss' and Stokes' theorems.
EOSC 212 - Topics in the Earth and Planetary Sciences
Cutting edge problems in earth, ocean, atmospheric and planetary sciences.  Topics will be introduced through discussions of the current literature.
PHYS 203 - Thermal Physics I
Fundamentals of thermodynamics and statistical physics; entropy, laws of thermodynamics, heat engines, free energy, phase transitions, Boltzmann statistics, quantum statistics.
MATH 215 - Elementary Differential Equations I
First-order equations; linear equations; linear systems; Laplace transforms; numerical methods; trajectory analysis of plane nonlinear systems. Applications of these topics will be emphasized.
EOSC 211 - Computer Methods in Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences
Mathematical computer-based problem solving in the physical, chemical, and biological sciences. Problems drawn from studies of the earth, the oceans and the atmosphere.
EOSC 352 - Geophysical Continuum Dynamics
Introduction to tensor calculus and continuum mechanics. Stress, strain and strain-rate tensors. Mass, momentum and energy balance. Applications to problems of geophysical heat transport, elasticity and fluid dynamics illustrated using MATLAB.
EOSC 353 - Seismology
Hooke's law for isotropic continua, elastic wave equation, reflection and refraction methods for imaging the Earth's internal structure, plane waves in an infinite medium and interaction with boundaries, body wave seismology, inversion of travel-time curves, generalized ray theory, crustal seismology, surface waves and earthquake source studies.
EOSC 354 - Analysis of Time Series and Inverse Theory for Earth Scientists
Continuous and discrete Fourier transforms, correlation and convolution, spectral estimates, optimum least-squares filters, deconvolution and prediction, frequency-wave number filtering. A practical course on computer techniques applied to the analysis of a wide range of geophysical phenomena.
MATH 317 - Calculus IV
Parametrizations, inverse and implicit functions, integrals with respect to length and area; grad, div, and curl, theorems of Green, Gauss, and Stokes.
PHYS 301 - Electricity and Magnetism
Maxwell's equations and their applications, electrical fields and potentials of static charge distributions, current, fields of moving charges, magnetic fields, electromagnetic induction.
EOSC 450 - Potential Fields in Earth and Planetary Sciences
Theory, application and quantitative interpretation of potential field methods in Earth and planetary sciences. Topics drawn from problems in geophysical exploration, geodesy, geodynamics of the planets, geomagnetism, planetary magnetic fields, heat flow and fluid flow.
EOSC 453 - Physics of the Earth and Other Planets
Identification and quantitative analysis of diverse physical problems in the earth, ocean, atmospheric, and planetary sciences.
EOSC 454 - Applied Geophysics
Using geophysics to characterize the Earth's subsurface for resource exploration, engineering, or environmental applications. Data acquisition, processing, and interpretation of geophysical surveys. Inversion examples drawn from potential (electrical, magnetic, gravity) or wave field (seismic, ground penetrating radar) surveys.
MATH 400 - Applied Partial Differential Equations
Separation of variables, first order equations, Sturm-Liouville theory, integral transform methods.
Follow this program
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Earth Sciences Building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Built in 2012 to LEED Gold construction standards, the Earth Sciences building is home to the Department of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences. It houses the department’s cluster computers for numerical weather and climate simulations, weather-instrument platform for research and teaching, modern labs for oceanographic research, wet labs, and two computer lab classrooms for undergraduate student use.
Find out more
Your future
The Geophysics specialization qualifies graduates for work in a wide range of earth sciences disciplines. The program equips you with strong critical thinking, analytical problem solving, communication, statistical, computational and research skills, and the ability to work effectively in teams. These skills are highly sought after and are transferable to many workplaces.
The specialization can be tailored to qualify you for registration as a Professional Geoscientist (P.Geo.) with the Association of Professional Geoscientists of British Columbia (APEGBC).
Program graduates
Geophysicist-in-training, DMT Geosciences
Principal geophysicist, Teck Resources Limited
Offshore field geophysicist, Schlumberger
Principal geophysicist, Mira Geoscience
MSc candidate in Geophysics, California Institute of Technology
Geophysicist, HDR
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry, and
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Dr. Matthews, a UBC professor who studies the "body language" of stars
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC