Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/german/

German
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
The German Studies program is made up of courses on Germanophone culture, film, history, language, linguistics, literature, media, philosophy, society and thought. Our courses represent the historically and socially diverse lives and communities that make up the German-speaking world in and beyond Europe—from Switzerland to Namibia to Hungary and elsewhere. Students who complete the Major will achieve at least B2 proficiency in German based on the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
This program includes the language, literature, and culture of the German-speaking world instructed in both German (GERN courses) and English (GMST courses).
First- to fourth-year German-language (GERN) courses focus on language learning, and the program is designed to develop active and communicative skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing German. The content includes German-language materials from a variety of geographic regions, social contexts, and periods and includes conversation and literatures courses in the target language.
The UBC German Program also offers first- to fourth-year courses in German Studies (GMST), taught in English, that cover Germanophone culture, film, history, literature, media, philosophy, society and thought. These courses are open to all students and have no prerequisites.
The full program for Honours, Major, and Minor in German Studies includes third- and fourth-year courses taught in English and German in Literature, Cultural Studies, Languages, and Media Studies.
In addition, the Department of Central, Eastern, and Northern European Studies (CENES) offers Swedish, Danish, Russian, Polish, Ukrainian, Yiddish, and Croatian language courses, as well as courses on Scandinavian, Slavic, and Baltic literature and culture (taught in English). CENES also offers survey courses on Central, Eastern, and Northern European literature and culture (CENS courses) as well as degree programs in Nordic and Slavic Studies.
Campus features
The UBC library is proud to have very extensive German-language holdings and among the best collections in Canada in German history.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
GERM 100 - Beginners' German I
Introduction to the language.  Ability to communicate accurately in a variety of everyday situations.  See also GERM 433.
GERM 110 - Beginners' German II
Introduction to the language. Ability to communicate accurately in a variety of everyday situations, speak about past events and express ideas and hypotheses in German. See also GERM 433.
GERM 112 - German for Singers
Study of the German language in combination with the study of German lyric diction and musical culture. The course includes translation, phonetic transcription, and the performance of vocal music.
GERM 213 - Refresher I
Grammar-based course for students with previous untutored  exposure to German and students with a first-year knowledge in need of grammar review.
GERM 200 - Intermediate German I
Competence and fluency in everyday situations; ability to report and narrate past events fluently and to express opinions; familiarity with contemporary issues in the German-speaking societies.
GERM 210 - Intermediate German II
Competence and fluency in everyday situations; ability to report and narrate past events fluently and to express opinions; familiarity with contemporary issues in the German-speaking societies; introduction to German for professional purposes.
GERM 301 - German Literature 1900 - 1945 (in English)
Reading and discussion of selected works against the background of literary, social, and political developments in twentieth-century Germany with special emphasis on plays and novels dealing with the First World War and Nazism.
GERM 304 - German Cinema (in English)
Screening, discussion, and critical analysis of German cinema from the silent era to the 21st century.
GERM 304 - German Cinema (in English)
Screening, discussion, and critical analysis of German cinema from the silent era to the 21st century.
GERM 360 - Heaven and Earth: Studies in German Culture and Literature before 1700
Masterpieces and major trends of the German literature of the Middle Ages, Renaissance and Baroque against the larger background of the political and social developments of the period.
GERM 310 - Intermediate German IV
Fostering of the ability to discuss controversial issues, express ideas clearly in writing and write essays on selected topics in German. Ongoing grammar review and expansion.
GERM 313 - Conversational German II
Emphasis on the study of oral communication skills and strategies. Fluency in many situations, communicative competence in important areas of cultural life, ability to participate in discussions of current as well as controversial issues to express ideas clearly in spoken word.
GERM 402 - Words and Music in German Literature (in English)
Study of individual works and genres in which words and music together form a whole. Possible topics include the Lutheran Hymn, the Volkslied, the Romantic Lied and Brecht songs, operas by Mozart, Wagner and Strauss, and music and the musician as a subject in literature. No musical training is necessary to take this course.
GERM 400 - Advanced German I
Near-native competence and thorough understanding of critical contemporary topics in a limited number of areas fostering study skills. All skills will be fostered but the course focuses on accurate writing and conversation in particular.
GERM 403 - Studies in Modern German Culture (in English)
Topics of special interest, varying from year to year.
GERM 401 - The Cult of the Hero and its Parody in German Literature
The glorification and satirization of heroes and heroism in a variety of genres and periods. Works and authors to be studied might include Nibelungenlied, Faust, Gryphius, Kleist, Fontane, Brecht, Remarque.
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Professor Schreyer, a linguist and anthropologist who helped develop Superman's mother tongue
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC