Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/global-resource-systems/

Global Resource Systems
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Visit program website
Explore solutions to complex resource problems as you delve into global food systems and their link to human and environmental health, agrifood systems, and more. You’ll have the opportunity to design your own degree and travel to other countries as you prepare for a career on the international stage.
Why this program?
Enjoy the flexibility to design your own curriculum, and gain skills and knowledge in both the humanities and the sciences.
Develop cross-cultural sensitivity through language and cultural training while spending a semester studying or volunteering abroad.
Gain a resource specialization within the context of a region of the world.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Degree:
Bachelor of Science in Global Resource Systems
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The Global Resource Systems (GRS) program recognizes that solving complex resource problems requires a wide range of skills, as well as a global and interdisciplinary approach. GRS is designed to equip you with a sophisticated international understanding, well-developed problem solving skills, and the confidence to bring your knowledge and insights to bear on the international stage.
You’ll enter the program after completing your first year in Land and Food Systems, Arts, or Sciences. In the third and fourth years of the program, you’ll select a resource area and a region of the world as the focus of your studies. In this self-directed program, you’ll focus on local and international resource issues and build your own degree path through a combination of science, humanities, and social science courses offered at faculties across UBC.
Experiential learning and research
Language and cultural training, and experiential learning, are requirements of the program. As part of a mandatory international field study, you’ll spend one or two semesters studying or volunteering abroad, usually in the region of your specialization. The destination, duration, and activity are flexible – your focus will be on learning and working in a different community and culture, developing your cross-cultural sensitivity and understanding.
The international experiences are offered through UBC’s Go Global Student Exchange program as well as through GRS-specific exchanges, including the popular field studies program in Kenya. The program received the 2002 Award for Excellence in Internationalization, sponsored by Scotiabank and the Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada, and the Alfred Scow Award in 2007 for contribution to student development.
Send details
Why this program?
Enjoy the flexibility to design your own curriculum, and gain skills and knowledge in both the humanities and the sciences.
Develop cross-cultural sensitivity through language and cultural training while spending a semester studying or volunteering abroad.
Gain a resource specialization within the context of a region of the world.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
LFS 100 - Introduction to Land, Food and Community
Orientation to the programs, learning environment and core values of the Faculty of Land and Food Systems; career programs; survey of professional opportunities and requirements.
BIOL 121 - Genetics, Evolution and Ecology
Principles of storage and transmission of genetic variation; origin and evolution of species and their ecological interactions.
CHEM 121 - Structure and Bonding in Chemistry
Fundamentals of bonding theories and structural chemistry, with applications relevant to modern society.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modelling: graphing, optimization.
SPAN 207 - Conversational Spanish II
Builds on communication skills through discussion, debate, and presentations; exploration of cultural topics through discussion of written texts and other media. May include experiential learning projects involving native speakers from the Hispanic community.
LFS 250 - Land, Food and Community I: Introduction to Food Systems and Sustainability
Managed systems and concepts of sustainability; economic, ecological and social components; managed landscapes, agri-food systems, and communities; urban and rural systems; the land, food, nutrition and human health continuum.
LFS 252 - Land, Food, and Community: Quantitative Data Analysis
Introduction to tools needed for data analysis of the economic, ecological, health, and scientific components of land and food systems.
GRS 290 - Global Issues in Cultural Context
Students interact face-to-face and on-line as a community of learners to discuss global issues in agriculture, food, and natural resources in cultural context. Typically taken prior to studying abroad.
GRS 390 - Global Issues in Cultural Context
Students interact face-to-face and on-line as a community of learners to discuss global issues in agriculture, food, and natural resources in cultural context. Typically taken while studying abroad.
LFS 350 - Land, Food, and Community II: Principles and Practice of Community Food Security
Project-based application of the principles and processes of community food security. Emphasis on developing skills required to address economic, ecological, social, and technological components of managed landscapes, agri-food systems, and communities comprising the land, food, nutrition and health continuum.
LFS 340 - First Nations Health and the Traditional Role of Plants
This Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) course covers the First Nations medical systems and medicinal plants. Bridging the traditional with modern sciences.
CHEM 302 - Atmospheric Environmental Chemistry
Introduction to structure, composition and chemical processes occurring in Earth's atmosphere, including interactions with solar radiation, stratospheric ozone layer, photochemical smog and acid rain.
GEOG 350 - Urban Worlds
City systems and theories of urban location; internal spatial structure of the city; commercial and industrial location; social areas; neighbourhood and land use change; urban trends and public policy.
LFS 400 - Audio Storytelling
Adopts a journalistic framework to communicate powerful stories and present academic content in new ways through the use of audio technology.
LFS 450 - Land, Food, and Community III: Leadership in Campus Food System Sustainability
Design, analysis, recommendation or implementation of solutions in response to a food sustainability issue faced by community partners. Emphasis is on professional communication, leadership development, project management and decision-making skills.
GRS 490 - Global Issues in Cultural Context
Students interact face-to-face and on-line as a community of learners to discuss global issues in agriculture, food, and natural resources in cultural context. Typically taken after studying abroad.
FNH 455 - Applied International Nutrition
Applying nutrition concepts and principles in addressing problems of malnutrition and food insecurity in international settings. Basics of developing culturally acceptable, sustainable nutrition intervention programs.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
View larger image
H. R. MacMillan building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Study resource management and gain a global and local perspective at UBC's Vancouver campus, located in one of Canada’s most multicultural cities. On this beautiful campus, with access to some of Canada’s most pristine wilderness and productive agricultural land, you'll have access to an on-campus working farm (UBC Farm), and have myriad opportunities to practise your language skills and engage with different perspectives.
Find out more
Your future
A GRS degree gives you a resource specialization and sets it within a specific global regional context, creating a depth and specificity of knowledge that is very valuable for employers in those sectors. Pursue a career in local, regional, national government; work in the private sector or with non-governmental organizations (NGOs); stay in Vancouver, work in your home region, or go abroad; focus on fresh water resource management or forestry, food security in remote communities, or large-scale, sustainable agriculture. The choice is truly yours: do what you want with your degree, make it your own, and the opportunities will be endless.
UBC stories
"My program, Global Resource Systems, was the perfect fit for me, as I got to apply my passion for sustainable food systems with environmental science, all while focusing on real-world action through an interdisciplinary lens. I was encouraged to take my learning outside of the classroom and apply my learning in other settings, and with so many options, it meant that I could create the exact right combination of experiences to fuel my aspirations and unearth new goals along the way."
Julia T., Global Resource Systems
Read the full story
Related programs
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Meet Cecilia, an Environmental Science and Human Geography student from Peru
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC