Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/graduate-certificate-higher-education

Graduate Certificate in Higher Education (GCHIED)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Graduate Certificate in Higher Education (GCHIED)
Go to programs search
Overview
The Graduate Certificate in Higher Education (GCHIED) is designed to meet the continuing professional development needs of those involved in the field of higher education. This certificate is intended for individuals in teaching, supporting, or monitoring roles in public and private institutions of higher education in British Columbia and beyond. Students will complete coursework on the following topics: an introduction to the field of higher education; the historical, philosophical, economic, and sociological foundations of higher education; organization and administration of higher education; and the Canadian systems of higher education.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Students studying in the GCHIED program may apply for admission to the MEd in Higher Education and transfer up to four certificate courses (12 credits) towards completion of the MEd program.
Program Structure
All students must complete:
EDST 493(3) Introduction to the Study of Higher Education
EDST 511(3) Organization and Administration of Higher Education
EDST 521(3) Foundations of Higher Education
EDST 536(3) Higher Education Systems in Canada
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Education
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Department of Educational Studies
Specialization
Higher Education
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Tuition and Fees
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$48.50
$48.50
Tuition *
Tuition per credit
$511.13
$733.86
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Education in Higher Education (MEd)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Education in Educational Leadership and Policy (EdD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Educational Studies (PhD)
Graduate Certificate in Adult Learning and Education (GCALE)
Master of Arts in Educational Studies (MA)
Master of Education in Adult Learning and Education (MEd)
Master of Education in Adult Learning and Global Change (MEd)
Master of Education in Curriculum and Leadership (MEd)
Master of Education in Educational Administration and Leadership (MEd)
Master of Education in Educational Studies (MEd)
Master of Education in Society, Culture and Politics in Education (MEd)
Further Information
Specialization
Higher Education
Higher Education focuses on the study of institutions of higher education and their members, activities, and policies. The program draws on such disciplines and fields as history, philosophy, sociology, economics, political science, psychology, law, and administrative studies.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-education/graduate-programs
Program Website
https://edst.educ.ubc.ca/programs/hied-graduate-certificate-program/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Education
Academic Unit
Department of Educational Studies
Classification
Education
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver