Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/graduate-certificate-high-performance-coaching-technical-leadership

Graduate Certificate in High Performance Coaching and Technical Leadership (GCHPCTL)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Graduate Certificate in High Performance Coaching and Technical Leadership (GCHPCTL)
Go to programs search
Overview
The UBC Certificate in High Performance Coaching and Technical Leadership is a one-year, 12 credit specialized program for experienced sport coaches and technical managers who are looking to advance in their careers. Through a partnership with the leading national agencies in high performance sport, an international quality program is offered using a blended delivery model.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The development of skills in analysis and evidence-based decision-making has been identified as a critical need by national coaches and technical leaders, and this program will help develop the next generation of coaches and technical leaders for Canada and across the globe. Our online teaching methods will facilitate the participation of candidates from across Canada and around the world.
This is a one-year, part-time program that typically uses a blend of online and face-to-face (F2F) course delivery, with a scheduled designed for working professionals.
Earn modules within NCCP Advanced Coaching Diploma and 12 university credits applicable towards a Master’s degree.
Program Structure
The program will start with a 3-day orientation, introducing the three formal courses (KIN 515, 585 & 586) and establishing work plans for the Directed Field Study (KIN 598). The courses will be delivered online with added synchronous classes scheduled throughout the fall and winter terms. All courses will conclude with a face-to-face session.
KIN 515 - Gap Analysis
KIN 585 - Performance Planning
KIN 586 - Coaching Effectiveness
KIN 598 - Directed Field Studies: Practicum
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Education
Mode of delivery
On campus / Online combination
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
School of Kinesiology
Specialization
High Performance Coaching and Technical Leadership
School
School of Kinesiology
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
Bachelor’s degree in Human Kinetics, Physical Education, Kinesiology or another related field of study.
Other Requirements
Candidates will normally have:
5 years of coaching experience, including coaching athletes at the national team or Canada Games level, or 5 years as a carded National Team athlete
National Coaching Certification Program qualification at level 3 or "Competition Development" recommendation of the National or Provincial Sports Organization
Tuition and Fees
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$48.50
$48.50
Tuition *
Tuition per credit
$613.45
$1,110.08
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of High Performance Coaching and Technical Leadership (MHPCTL)
Further Information
Specialization
High Performance Coaching and Technical Leadership
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-education/graduate-programs
Program Website
https://kin.educ.ubc.ca/graduate-programs/hp-coaching/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Education
Academic Unit
School of Kinesiology
Classification
Kinesiology
Sports medicine
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver