Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/graduate-certificate-applied-geological-engineering

Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Graduate Certificate in Applied Geological Engineering (GCAGE)
Graduate Certificate in Applied Geological Engineering (GCAGE)
Go to programs search
Overview
GCAGE is a unique course based online post-baccalaureate professional program offering by Geological Engineering.
Advanced geological engineering in the mining and civil fields require unique skillsets to control, manage and communicate geological uncertainty and risk when faced with complex geological problems, often with high socio-economic and environmental stakes associated to the success of a project. GCAGE aims to equip geoscientists and engineers from relevant disciplines with the knowledge and skills to confidently address these challenges and expose them to the new tools in Geological Engineering.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Emphasis in our graduate courses is placed on case histories and project work that target the integration of field techniques/data with advanced numerical modelling to better understand the importance of underlying processes, mechanisms, and interactions that can affect engineering designs.
This certificate is meant to be a part-time commitment completed fully online over a period of 8-months with the majority of the coursework done asynchronously allowing for easy remote studies for those potential students not located in Vancouver or who would like to continue working full-time while in the program.
Students who complete the certificate will have the option of laddering the coursework into Masters programs offered by the Geological Engineering Program (Master of Engineering or Master of Applied Science in Geological Engineering to a total of 9-credits rome the GCAGE toward their degree.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Science
Mode of delivery
Online / Distance (100%)
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Department of Earth, Ocean & Atmospheric Sciences
Specialization
Applied Geological Engineering
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
Students are encouraged to have completed the equivalent to a 4-years bachelors degree in a relevant field of discipline before applying: geological engineering, civil engineering, mining engineering, geology etc.
Other Requirements
A professional background working in a relevant feild of discipline is an assest: geological engineering, civil engineering, mining engineering, geology etc.
Tuition and Fees
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Tuition per credit
$1,122.00
$1,155.00
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
Vary
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Related Programs
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Atmospheric Science (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Geological Engineering (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Geological Sciences (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Geophysics (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Oceanography (PhD)
Master of Applied Science in Geological Engineering (MASc)
Master of Applied Science in Geophysics (MASc)
Master of Engineering in Geological Engineering (MEng)
Master of Science in Atmospheric Science (MSc)
Master of Science in Geological Sciences (MSc)
Master of Science in Geophysics (MSc)
Master of Science in Oceanography (MSc)
Further Information
Specialization
Applied Geological Engineering
This specialized program for engineers and geoscientists provides education on advanced applications of applied geotechnics.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/certificate-programs/graduate-certificate-applied-geological-engineering
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Science
Academic Unit
Department of Earth, Ocean & Atmospheric Sciences
Classification
Resources engineering and extractive metallurgy
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Considering UBC for your graduate studies?
Here, you can choose from more than 300 graduate degree program options and 2000+ research supervisors. You can even design your own program.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC