Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/graduate-certificate-rehabilitation-sciences

Graduate Certificate in Rehabilitation Sciences (GCRS)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Graduate Certificate in Rehabilitation Sciences (GCRS)
Go to programs search
Overview
This interdisciplinary, online certificate is targeted to occupational therapists, physical therapists, and other health professionals who want to update their knowledge and skills to better meet the demands of the current health care environment. The program provides useable, evidence-based skills for the rehabilitation workplace. Each course draws on the research and rehabilitation practice experience of those currently shaping the field.
The certificate is delivered entirely online (no classes on campus or summer residences). It is designed to allow practicing health professionals to continue their studies with minimal disruption to your work.
Please note, the GCR is not an entry-level credential for rehabilitation in Canada or other countries; that is, completing the program does not mean you are eligible to practice as a health professional. The GCR is an advanced certificate for health professionals already working in rehabilitation who have a minimum of three (3) years of work experience practicing in their profession in a health care setting. Current or past experience needs to include having your own caseload, and assessing and treating patients independently.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
GCR credits are transferable to the MRSc when GCR students meet MRSc professional and academic admission requirements at the time they are admitted to the GCR.
Program Structure
The GCR program consists of five courses that give participants the opportunity to develop the essential knowledge and skills required for best practice in rehabilitation. Each course draws on the research and rehabilitation practice experience of those currently shaping the field. Each course is 13 weeks long and is offered in either the Fall (September-December) or Winter (January-April) sessions. Some courses are also offered in the late Spring session (April-July).
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Medicine
Mode of delivery
Online / Distance (100%)
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Rehabilitation Sciences Programs
Specialization
Rehabilitation Sciences
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Requirements
Other Requirements
Applicants must be practicing health professionals in regulated health or human services disciplines who have a minimum of three (3) years of rehabilitation work experience in a health care setting where they have their own caseload, and assess and treat patients independently. Experience is not limited by setting and may include community/home health practice, private practice, hospital-based, industry, schools, rehabilitation centres, etc.
Proof of eligibility to practice in your discipline in your province/country (i.e. photocopy of current membership certificate and registration number in a college or agency that regulates practice in your discipline).
Tuition and Fees
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$0.00
Not applicable
Tuition *
Tuition per credit
$470.99
$539.41
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
Vary
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Rehabilitation Sciences (PhD)
Master of Rehabilitation Science (MRSc)
Master of Science in Rehabilitation Sciences (MSc)
Further Information
Specialization
Rehabilitation Sciences
The Master of Science in Rehabilitation Science (MSc) is designed to prepare individuals to conduct research independently and in collaboration with other scientists. Students will investigate an area of research relevant to rehabilitation through critical analysis of problems related to basic sciences, clinical practice, or to development of theory.
The Master of Rehabilitation Science (MRSc) is designed for working health professionals and to enhance interdisciplinary practice. Unlike traditional thesis-based research master’s programs, the MRSc is a combination of courses and a work- or practice-based research project. The MRSc allows you to obtain a master’s degree without interrupting your work.
The Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) focuses on the discipline of rehabilitation sciences, the study of providing treatment and education to persons with temporary or permanent disability to return them to maximum function, well-being and personally-satisfying levels of independence.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-medicine/graduate-certificate-rehabilitation
Program Website
https://mrsc.ubc.ca/gcr/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Medicine
Academic Unit
Rehabilitation Sciences Programs
Classification
Rehabilitation medicine
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Considering UBC for your graduate studies?
Here, you can choose from more than 300 graduate degree program options and 2000+ research supervisors. You can even design your own program.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC