Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/graduate-certificate-clinical-informatics

Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Graduate Certificate in Clinical Informatics (GCCI)
Graduate Certificate in Clinical Informatics (GCCI)
Go to programs search
Overview
The goal of this 11-month, 9-credit online certificate program is to provide healthcare professionals with foundational knowledge and skills to assume or strengthen roles on clinical informatics teams in healthcare organizations and to lead the design, planning, and implementation of various clinical informatics solutions. The program leverages active learning strategies for clinicians to apply their clinical knowledge and develop deep technology literacy to enable collaboration with technology teams, and tailor technology to the clinical context. Students in this program work collaboratively on real-world-type projects that incorporate current informatics best practices, theories, standards, and recent/seminal literature.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Individuals who complete this program will have a solid foundational knowledge of clinical informatics and will be exposed to the design, planning, and implementation of various clinical informatics solutions.
This foundational knowledge will help graduates to:
Collaborate effectively with technical teams in healthcare organizations
Communicate functional and design requirements to technical teams
Elicit information from clinicians to articulate technical needs
Lead local clinical informatics projects in healthcare organizations
Navigate implications of design and project decisions
Program Structure
The Graduate Certificate Program in Clinical informatics consists of 3 required courses (9 credits) to be completed over 11 months. Academic credits earned toward the certificate are often transferable to other graduate degrees.
This Program is 100% online. Students will engage in 2-3 hours of online synchronous class once per week and engage in 3-6 hours of course work and/or assignments per week (5-9 hours in total).
Course content will be offered through the UBC Canvas System and UBC Accredited Zoom. The delivery will include a blend of synchronous and asynchronous learning. Students will review journal articles, view video lectures, complete course-specific assignments, and engage in facilitated discussions during synchronous classes.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Applied Science
Mode of delivery
Online / Distance (100%)
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
School of Nursing
Specialization
Clinical Informatics
School
School of Nursing
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Tuition and Fees
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Tuition per credit
$816.00
$840.00
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
Vary
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Related Programs
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Nursing (PhD)
Master of Health Leadership and Policy in Clinical Education (MHLP)
Master of Health Leadership and Policy in Seniors Care (MHLP)
Master of Nursing - Nurse Practitioner (MN)
Master of Science in Nursing (MSN)
Further Information
Specialization
Clinical Informatics
Students in clinical informatics will be exposed to the design, planning, and implementation of various clinical informatics solutions. This foundational knowledge will help graduates to collaborate effectively with technical teams in healthcare organizations, communicate functional and design requirements to technical teams, elicit information from clinicians to articulate technical needs, lead local clinical informatics projects in healthcare organizations and navigate implications of design and project decisions.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/school-nursing/graduate-certificate-clinical-informatics
Program Website
https://nursing.ubc.ca/graduate/graduate-certificate-in-clinical-informatics
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Applied Science
Academic Unit
School of Nursing
Classification
Information Systems
Bioinformatics
Clinical sciences
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Considering Vancouver as your next home?
This city won’t disappoint. It has it all: sea, parks, mountains, beaches and all four seasons, including beautiful summers and mild, wet winters with snow.
Learn more about life in Vancouver