Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/graduate-diploma-pharmacy-leadership

Graduate Diploma in Pharmacy Leadership (GDPL)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Graduate Diploma in Pharmacy Leadership (GDPL)
Go to programs search
Overview
The Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences Graduate Diploma in Pharmacy Leadership (GDPL) program is designed for pharmacists seeking to advance their career marketability by upgrading their skills as strong leaders in the pharmacy profession. The GDPL is structured to prepare pharmacists with leadership aspirations to gain a competitive edge at a time when the profession is seeking outstanding leaders with a broad perspective of the healthcare system, and a solid understanding of how pharmacy connects with it.
Led by influential faculty members with accomplished careers, and with curricular contributions from the UBC Sauder School of Business, the GDPL’s 12-month, online program with a one-week in-person component allows the flexibility for pharmacists to study and apply learned leadership concepts to their jobs as they continue to work in their daily employment.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The GDPL is Canada’s first, and only graduate diploma designed specifically for pharmacists to become leaders. The program aims to equip working pharmacists with the relevant, pharmacy-specific leadership skills needed to meet or exceed the expectations of employers seeking experienced leaders in administrative, corporate, public health, primary care, academic, regulatory, or government roles.
Graduates of the GDPL will be able to:
Apply organizational behaviour and change management principles to the critique of existing leadership and practice models.
Apply best practices and latest thinking, to current leadership issues, challenges, and opportunities confronting pharmacy.
Apply evidence supporting pharmacy decision- and policy-making to the design, development, and implementation of healthcare policy.
Apply specific models of communication and principles of conflict management to lead in challenging circumstances.
Interpret and apply best practices and pedagogical principles to lead and educate diverse audiences.
Enhance and support leadership development in the self and in others, leveraging individual strengths, values, and roles.
Program Structure
The program grants a Graduate Diploma in Pharmacy Leadership (GDPL) credential and is comprised of five courses, designed to be completed in 12 months. The curriculum is delivered online (with mainly asynchronous and some synchronous components), making it accessible and flexible for working pharmacists who live and practice across urban and rural areas. Only a small portion is conducted in-person during the week-long program orientation in September.
The curriculum includes:
PHRM 520 Leadership & Organizational Behaviour
PHRM 521 Evidence-Informed Decision-Making in Healthcare
PHRM 522 Contemporary Leadership Issues in Pharmacy
PHRM 523 Leadership in Pharmacy Education
PHRM 524 Pharmacy Leadership Seminar
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Mode of delivery
On campus / Online combination
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Specialization
Pharmacy Leadership
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Requirements
Document Requirements
Your current CV, copies of academic transcripts, and contact information for two professional references will be required at the time of initial application. Official transcripts required upon offer of admission.
Other Requirements
Applicants must present proof of licensure, or eligibility for licensure as a pharmacist in the applicant's local jurisdiction.
Research Information
Research Facilities
Following the one-week in-person orientation and immersive learning period at the Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences building at UBC Vancouver in September, students will be able to complete the remaining coursework online from their home or office.
Tuition and Fees
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Tuition per credit
$566.66
$974.15
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Career Options
Advancements in the pharmacy profession and its educational landscape, and the enhanced complexity of the Canadian healthcare system, along with new technologies and models of care have heightened the demand for pharmacists with sophisticated leadership skills. Strong leaders in today’s pharmacy profession are defined by their ability to apply organizational behaviour and change management at the individual, dyadic, team, and organizational levels, in collaborative practice, in public health initiatives, and in policy decision-making.
The profession demands a new cadre of pharmacists who can not only lead, but also support leadership development in others. In this evolving landscape, a wide range of employers across all sectors of the profession are looking to hire pharmacists with a solid understanding of how pharmacy connects with this evolving Canadian healthcare system.
Career options include decision-making positions in the following fields:
Government
Corporate
Education
Industry
Clinical
Further Information
Specialization
Pharmacy Leadership
Advancements in the pharmacy profession and its educational landscape, along with new technologies and models of care have heightened the demand for pharmacists with leadership skills applied to organizational behavior and change management at the individual, dyadic, team, and organizational levels, facilitating collaborative practice, and leading public health initiatives and healthcare policy decision-making. The profession is primed for pharmacy leaders who not only lead but also support leadership development in others.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/diploma-programs/graduate-diploma-pharmacy-leadership
Program Website
https://pharmsci.ubc.ca/programs/graduate-diploma-pharmacy-leadership
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Academic Unit
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Classification
Pharmacology and pharmaceutical sciences, n.e.c.
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver