Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/graduate-certificate-global-mine-waste-management

Graduate Certificate in Global Mine Waste Management (GCGMWM)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Graduate Certificate in Global Mine Waste Management (GCGMWM)
Go to programs search
Overview
The Graduate Certificate in Global Mine Waste Management is a unique program for mining industry professionals who want to stay up to date with the latest developments in tailings and mine waste management. Recent high-profile failures of tailings ponds in British Columbia and Brazil underline the vital importance of understanding and implementing best practices in this field. From day one, this part-time certificate enables you to learn from industry leaders and apply the knowledge you’re gaining in your courses to your workplace and mine sites.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The online learning flexibility allows you to balance your studies and your career – and to immediately begin applying what you’re learning in class to your work as a mining professional.
The combination of condensed on-campus sessions and online learning also enables professionals working in remote mining operations to pursue graduate coursework in mining engineering.
Students who complete the certificate have the option of laddering the coursework into masters programs offered by the Mining Engineering Department (master of engineering or master of applied science degree in Mining Engineering).
Program Structure
The graduate certificate program consists of four core courses taken over two consecutive years. Each four-month course consists of a two-week in-person session held at the UBC Vancouver campus and that includes two or three days at a local mining operation. The on-campus sessions bring together industry professionals from across the globe – enabling you to network with your peers and learn best practices from all mining sectors. The course sessions are offered in an online learning environment and are designed so you can continue working full-time while studying.
The 12-credit certificate program provides in-depth knowledge of best practices in mine waste management. Courses in the first year of study focus on advanced mine waste management and site management, while those in the second year explore risk assessment and mine waste management case studies.
Each course is offered in a blended three-part format:
Part 1: Online learning (two months)
Part 2: Intensive campus session at UBC (two weeks)
Part 3: Final project, completed through online learning (six weeks)
All students must complete the following four courses (12 credits):
MINE 586 (3): Advanced Mine Waste Management
MINE 587 (3): Advanced Mine Site Management
MINE 588 (3): Risk Management for Mine Waste Management
MINE 589 (3): Mine Waste Case Studies
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Applied Science
Mode of delivery
On campus / Online combination
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Norman B. Keevil Institute of Mining Engineering
Specialization
Global Mine Waste Management
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Tuition and Fees
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Tuition per credit
$1,843.79
$2,071.06
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Further Information
Specialization
Global Mine Waste Management
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-applied-science/graduate-certificates-programs/graduate-certificate-global-mine-waste-management
Program Website
https://mining.ubc.ca/academic-program/graduate-certificate/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Applied Science
Academic Unit
Norman B. Keevil Institute of Mining Engineering
Classification
Resources engineering and extractive metallurgy
Environmental engineering
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Why should you choose UBC?
From academic excellence and modern facilities to our diverse degree program listings to being named one of the “most innovative universities” by Reuters in 2019, UBC has a lot to offer.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC