Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/graduate-certificate-orientation-mobility

Graduate Certificate in Orientation and Mobility (GCOM)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Graduate Certificate in Orientation and Mobility (GCOM)
Go to programs search
Overview
This program prepares students to teach all age ranges of individuals who are blind or visually impaired to travel safely and efficiently through their environment. Completion of the program will allow students to apply for certification with the Academy for Certification of Vision Rehabilitation and Education Professionals (ACVREP) as a Certified Orientation and Mobility Specialist (COMS).
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
Program Structure
A new cohort starts every other year, and begins in the summer of even years (e.g., 2024, 2026). The Graduate Certiicate in O&M is 15 credits.
TERM
COURSE
Starting Summer:
July, Even year (e.g. 2024, 2026)
EPSE 514: Advanced Orientation and Mobility Techniques
(6 Credits)
On-campus, 5 weeks | mid-July to mid-August; M-F; 5 hrs/day (allows for built in break and travel time)
First Winter:
September, Even year (e.g. 2024, 2026)
EPSE 537: Programming in Orientation and Mobility
(3 credits)
Online, 13 weeks | September–December
Second Winter:
January, Odd year (e.g. 2025, 2027)
EPSE 538: Seminar in Orientation and Mobility
(3 credits)
Online, 13 weeks | January–April
Start date and length dependent on placement after course completion
EPSE 598: Internship
(3 credits)
In the field | 350-hour internship
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Education
Mode of delivery
On campus / Online combination
Program Components
Coursework + Practicum
Academic Unit
Department of Educational & Counselling Psychology, and Special Education
Specialization
Orientation and Mobility
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Requirements
Course Requirements
For individuals who do not have background in visual impairment with accompanying approved university courses that meet the pre-requisites, 9 additional credit hours of coursework, plus completion of a self-study program in braille reading and writing, are required.
Tuition and Fees
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$45.50
$45.50
Tuition *
Tuition per credit
$402.13
$912.75
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Career Options
In Canada, students who complete the O&M graduate certificate tend to work as O&M specialists through the following service delivery models
Work with school age children hired by a school district
Private contract work (generally with school districts)
Work with adults through Vision Loss Rehabilitation (VLR) or another rehabilitation agency (province dependent)
Related Programs
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Counselling Psychology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Human Development, Learning, and Culture (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Measurement, Evaluation and Research Methodology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in School and Applied Child Psychology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Special Education (PhD)
Master of Arts in Counselling Psychology (MA)
Master of Arts in Human Development, Learning, and Culture (MA)
Master of Arts in Measurement, Evaluation and Research Methodology (MA)
Master of Arts in School and Applied Child Psychology (MA)
Master of Arts in Special Education (MA)
Master of Education in Counselling Psychology (MEd)
Master of Education in Human Development, Learning, and Culture (MEd)
Master of Education in Measurement, Evaluation and Research Methodology (MEd)
Master of Education in School and Applied Child Psychology (MEd)
Master of Education in Special Education (MEd)
Further Information
Specialization
Orientation and Mobility
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-education/graduate-programs
Program Website
https://ecps.educ.ubc.ca/special-education/certificate-in-orientation-and-mobility/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Education
Academic Unit
Department of Educational & Counselling Psychology, and Special Education
Classification
Special education and disability
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Curious about UBC for grad school?
Our community of scholars is one of the world’s finest, committed to discovering and sharing knowledge, and to tackling the challenges that face our world.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC