Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/graduate-certificate-adult-learning-education

Graduate Certificate in Adult Learning and Education (GCALE)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Graduate Certificate in Adult Learning and Education (GCALE)
Go to programs search
Overview
Adult learning and education continues well beyond the completion of formal secondary and post-secondary education. It is a lifelong and life-wide phenomenon found in many workplaces and in many community contexts.
The Graduate Certificate Program is designed to meet the continuing professional development needs of those involved in the broad field of adult learning and education. Are you responsible for providing adult learning opportunities in your workplace, union, professional organization, community, advocacy group, non-profit society or business? Are involved with designing learning programs for adults, exploring what their interests and needs are, creating a program that enables adults to develop their knowledge and learn new skills, and assessing the outcomes and effectiveness of such learning? Then this program is for you.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The Certificate program provides participants with enhanced knowledge and skills of the principles, practices, histories, and philosophies of adult learning and education.
You can request to transfer the 12 ALE Certificate credits into our regular ALE Master's Program, for both M.Ed. and M.A. degrees.
Program Structure
Students must complete 12 credits including the three MEd core courses listed below and one elective.
EDST 503 (3) Historical and Philosophical Foundations of Adult Learning and Education
EDST 514 (3) Adult Education Program Planning Theory
EDST 518 (3) Theory and Research on Adult Learning
Approved 3 credit elective
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Education
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Department of Educational Studies
Specialization
Adult Learning and Education
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
It is not a requirement that an applicant's undergraduate degree be in education. However some experience (1–2 years), be it paid or voluntary, with designing, organizing, administering programs for adult learners is required.
Tuition and Fees
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$48.50
$48.50
Tuition *
Tuition per credit
$511.13
$733.86
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Education in Adult Learning and Education (MEd)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Education in Educational Leadership and Policy (EdD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Educational Studies (PhD)
Graduate Certificate in Higher Education (GCHIED)
Master of Arts in Educational Studies (MA)
Master of Education in Adult Learning and Global Change (MEd)
Master of Education in Curriculum and Leadership (MEd)
Master of Education in Educational Administration and Leadership (MEd)
Master of Education in Educational Studies (MEd)
Master of Education in Higher Education (MEd)
Master of Education in Society, Culture and Politics in Education (MEd)
Further Information
Specialization
Adult Learning and Education
The Adult Learning and Education (ALE) program has historical roots in traditions of social welfare, community development and extension education. ALE is concerned with the development of scholars and practitioners who will shape society in ways that promote lifelong learning for all.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-education/graduate-programs
Program Website
https://edst.educ.ubc.ca/programs/ale-cert/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Education
Academic Unit
Department of Educational Studies
Classification
Education
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Considering Vancouver as your next home?
This city won’t disappoint. It has it all: sea, parks, mountains, beaches and all four seasons, including beautiful summers and mild, wet winters with snow.
Learn more about life in Vancouver