Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/graduate-certificate-aquaculture

Graduate Certificate in Aquaculture (GCAQUA)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Graduate Certificate in Aquaculture (GCAQUA)
Go to programs search
Overview
British Columbia is the country’s largest producer of farmed seafood, producing half of Canada’s output in 2016 (Canadian Aquaculture Industry Alliance). More than 700 seafood farms are located in the province producing finfish (mainly salmon), and a wide variety of shellfish, including clams, oysters and mussels. Many people are also employed in supplying feed and nutrients to fish, and in value-added food processing.
UBC’s Graduate Certificate in Aquaculture provides an excellent entryway into this exciting and evolving area. Students will gain the theoretical and practical skills to become contributors to the aquaculture industry from a sustainability, biological, social, and economic lens.
The certificate program is a one semester/4-month, 17-credit specialized program that is ideal for students interested in entering the aquaculture industry and for those who are ready for a career transition. It explores principles across the broad scope of fields involved with food production from aquaculture.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
British Columbia – and UBC – are perfectly situated for the aquaculture industry. Access to large tracts of coastline and moderate temperatures have helped aquaculture grow into a $700 million industry in the province.
UBC offers the only graduate-level aquaculture program in Western Canada. The program trains people who possess foundational critical thinking and problem solving skills to become future leaders in the industry.
While here, students will discover the types of jobs available in aquaculture throughout the province, earn credits in courses that prepare them for all aspects of aquaculture, and build a network with industry professionals.
Program Structure
Courses will be delivered at the UBC Vancouver campus during Winter Term 1 (September – December). Students will complete the certificate on a full-time basis over a period of 4 months, completing 7 required courses (17 credits required):
AQUA 501 (3 credits) Aquaculture Production Systems
AQUA 502 (2 credits) Fish Nutrition, Feeds and Feeding
AQUA 503 (3 credits) Fish Health
AQUA 504 (2 credits) Finfish Genetics and Reproduction in Aquaculture
AQUA 505 (3 credits) Ecological Sustainability of Aquaculture
AQUA 506 (2 credits) Business concepts in Aquaculture
AQUA 507 (2 credits) Seafood Processing
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Specialization
Aquaculture
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Tuition and Fees
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Tuition per credit
$608.85
$1,117.93
Other Fees and Costs
Supplementary fees (once)
$1060.00 Field trip and text book fee
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$3000.00
$5000.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Career Options
There are many aquaculture career opportunities in B.C., across Canada and around the world, spanning coastal to urban communities. The range of careers is wide and working conditions are equally varied. Our graduates can expect to find work in a place that fits their interests: land-based or sea-based farms; in a feed or food processing plant; or in an office or lab. Here are some careers available to those with an aquaculture education.
Careers at a sea-based or land-based farm site:
Fish production technician / manager
Hatchery technician / manager
Fish health technician
Aquatic veterinarian
Fish biologist
Aquaculture diver
Waste management technologist
Careers in an office:
Environmental and regulatory affairs manager
Aquaculture engineer
Research scientist / technician
Habitat biologist
Research and development coordinator
Environmental assessment technician
Regulatory affairs officer
Careers at a feed mill:
Feed production technician
Environmental assessment technician
Nutrition researcher
Careers at a food processing plant:
Processing line operator / supervisor
Quality assurance manager
Product developer
Waste management technologist
Careers with the government:
Aquaculture policy advisor
Aquaculture extension officers
Aquaculture development specialist
Environmental assessment technician
Regulatory affairs officer
Related Programs
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Applied Animal Biology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Food Science (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Human Nutrition (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Integrated Studies in Land and Food Systems (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Plant Science (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Soil Science (PhD)
Master of Food and Resource Economics (MFRE)
Master of Food Science (MFS)
Master of Land and Water Systems (MLWS)
Master of Science in Applied Animal Biology (MSc)
Master of Science in Food Science (MSc)
Master of Science in Human Nutrition (MSc)
Master of Science in Integrated Studies in Land and Food Systems (MSc)
Master of Science in Plant Science (MSc)
Master of Science in Soil Science (MSc)
Further Information
Specialization
Aquaculture
Aquaculture is farming in water. It’s the cultivation of fish, shellfish and aquatic plants in fresh or marine water, typically for food. Aquaculture started in Canada as a way to supplement natural fish stocks, and it has since grown into a large, commercial industry. Today, seafood farms are located in every province and in the Yukon, and aquaculture employs 25,000 people across Canada.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-land-and-food-systems/graduate-certificate-aquaculture
Program Website
https://aqua.landfood.ubc.ca/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Academic Unit
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Classification
Aquaculture
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Considering UBC for your graduate studies?
Here, you can choose from more than 300 graduate degree program options and 2000+ research supervisors. You can even design your own program.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC