Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/graduate-certificate-global-surgical-care

Graduate Certificate in Global Surgical Care (GCGSC)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Graduate Certificate in Global Surgical Care (GCGSC)
Go to programs search
Overview
The Graduate Certificate in Global Surgical Care (GCGSC) is a 12-credit certificate program offered by the Branch for Global Surgical Care (BGSC) at the UBC Faculty of Medicine. Designed to meet the growing need for professional development in global surgical care, this program is available to surgeons and allied health professionals with all levels of expertise in surgical care, from high and low-resource regions. Students will immerse in an interdisciplinary learning community with online learners around the world. Upon completion of the program, students will be prepared to provide leadership and advocacy in global surgical care.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The Graduate Certificate in Global Surgical Care (GCGSC) provides a strong foundation in key concepts of global surgical care. The four courses of the GCGSC can ladder into the MGSC.
The program can be taken full-time (1 year) or part-time (up to 5 years).
Each 3-credit course is delivered completely online over a period of 12 weeks. Courses are designed to bring different and complementary essential aspects that provide depth and breadth to the subject. Students research journal articles, view videos, complete course-specific tasks and assignments as well as engage in facilitated online discussion forums.
Program Structure
All students must complete the following four courses (12 credits):
SURG 510 – Surgical Care in International Health
SURG 512 – Global Disability: A Surgical Care Mandate
SURG 514 – Surgical Care in Humanitarian Disaster Response
SURG 516 – Program Planning and Evaluation in Surgical Care Low Resource Settings
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Medicine
Mode of delivery
Online / Distance (100%)
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Department of Surgery
Specialization
Global Surgical Care
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Tuition and Fees
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$74.25
$125.25
Tuition *
Tuition per credit
$497.94
$1,165.09
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
Vary
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Career Options
By expanding students’ knowledge of conditions, and global circumstances, that shape surgical care globally, graduates will become leaders in this emerging academic discipline and equipped to play an integral part in provision of global surgical care in low resource settings.
This Graduate Certificate bridges the gap between the international demand and the health professionals' education to meet the learning needs of this growing cadre of students. Currently, there are no accredited graduate certificate programs available to this cadre that focus on surgical care issues which makes this program unique.
Upon completion of the program, learners will be able to:
Articulate and discuss both historical and current dimensions of the evolving global surgical care discipline;
Apply critical thinking to current and proposed global surgical care projects and programs;
Critique programs of disaster mitigation and contribute to disaster readiness both nationally and internationally;
Actively contribute to monitoring and evaluation programs of global health initiatives;
Provide leadership in advocacy at decision making levels for addressing the unmet surgical care burden of underserved populations globally;
Apply the skills of one’s own professional background to the spectrum of the global surgical care discipline.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Global Surgical Care (MGSC)
Same Academic Unit
Master of Science in Surgery (MSc)
Further Information
Specialization
Global Surgical Care
This program is designed to prepare surgical care professionals from many disciplines to address surgical challenges and contribute to finding solutions in low resource settings globally.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-medicine/graduate-certificate-global-surgical-care
Program Website
https://globalsurgery.med.ubc.ca/graduate-programs/gcgsc/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Medicine
Academic Unit
Department of Surgery
Classification
Other medical sciences
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Considering Vancouver as your next home?
This city won’t disappoint. It has it all: sea, parks, mountains, beaches and all four seasons, including beautiful summers and mild, wet winters with snow.
Learn more about life in Vancouver