Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/graduate-certificate-orthopaedic-musculoskeletal-physical-therapy

Graduate Certificate in Orthopaedic Musculoskeletal Physical Therapy (GCOMP)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Graduate Certificate in Orthopaedic Musculoskeletal Physical Therapy (GCOMP)
Go to programs search
Overview
The UBC Graduate Certificate in Orthopaedic Musculoskeletal Physical Therapy (GCOMP) is a 21-credit specialized program for experienced physical therapists who aim to advance their evidence-based knowledge and skills in orthopaedic manual and musculoskeletal physical therapy practice. The certificate is intended to be completed over a 2-year period of part-time study.
By the end of this program, students will be able to provide advanced orthopaedic musculoskeletal physiotherapy assessment and treatment that will enhance their provision of effective, evidence-based treatment of musculoskeletal conditions.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
UBC’s GCOMP program is a new benchmark in musculoskeletal post-graduate clinical training. Renowned clinicians teach within an integrated framework to develop your expertise in musculoskeletal physiotherapy.
Expert clinicians and instructors, selected for their in-depth knowledge and teaching experience
The integrated program covers musculoskeletal anatomy and biomechanics, advanced manual therapy and exercise prescription, and pain neuroscience
A mix of online and in-person delivery for working clinicians
Can be used for credit toward a Master of Rehabilitation Sciences
Program Structure
The 21 credits required to complete the Graduate Certificate in Orthopaedic Manipulative Physical Therapy program consist of:
RHSC 501 (3): Evidence for Practice
PHTH 580 (9): Orthopaedic Clinical Reasoning and Skills
PHTH 581 (3): Evidence and Theory in Musculoskeletal Therapy
RHSC 587 (3): Major Research Project (I)
RHSC 589 (3): Major Research Project (II)
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Medicine
Mode of delivery
On campus / Online combination
Program Components
Coursework + Major Project/Essay required
Academic Unit
Department of Physical Therapy
Specialization
Orthopaedic Musculoskeletal Physical Therapy
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
Candidates must hold an entry-level degree in physical therapy.
Other Requirements
Candidates must have a minimum of one-year of recent clinical experience in orthopaedic physical therapy, and have completed 30 hours of clinical mentorship in manual therapy.
Candidates must have successfully completed the Level II Upper and Lower courses and examinations in the Canadian Physiotherapy Orthopaedic Division Advanced Orthopaedic Manual and Manipulative Physiotherapy program, or the equivalent.
Candidates must be physical therapists registered in British Columbia.
Research Information
Program Components
The GCOMP curriculum blends three types of learning – online course-work, hands-on instruction at the UBC campus, and a clinical mentorship assignment.
Tuition and Fees
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$0.00
Not applicable
Tuition *
Tuition per credit
$589.80
$675.49
Other Fees and Costs
Supplementary fees (once)
$3275.75 Lab fee
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Further Information
Specialization
Orthopaedic Musculoskeletal Physical Therapy
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-medicine/graduate-certificate-orthopaedic-musculoskeletal-physical-therapy
Program Website
https://physicaltherapy.med.ubc.ca/programs/gcompt/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Medicine
Academic Unit
Department of Physical Therapy
Classification
Rehabilitation medicine
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Considering UBC for your graduate studies?
Here, you can choose from more than 300 graduate degree program options and 2000+ research supervisors. You can even design your own program.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC