Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/indigenous-land-stewardship/

Indigenous Land Stewardship
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
The Bachelor of Indigenous Land Stewardship program will help train the next generation of land stewards alongside Indigenous scholars, well-prepared allies, Elders, and knowledge keepers in culturally appropriate ways.
Why this program?
Has entrance requirements reflective of honouring and valuing the knowledges and experiences of Indigenous Peoples
Provides Indigenous-led education taught by Indigenous scholars, well-prepared allies, Elders, and knowledge keepers
Utilizes a highly relational, multi-disciplinary, multi-knowledge, and land-based system approach to learning
Fosters Indigenous-led land healing and action-oriented reconciliation
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Forestry
Degree:
Bachelor of Indigenous Land Stewardship
Length
4.0 yrs
Co-op
No
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Indigenous Peoples around the world are reclaiming and revitalizing their lands and stewardship of them. This cultural resurgence is catalyzing Nations and other Indigenous groups to strengthen their systems of governance, build economic opportunities, and bring knowledge systems together to ensure community capacity, sustainability, and resiliency in an uncertain climate future.
This interdisciplinary program has been created to bring together Indigenous students and students interested in becoming well-prepared allies to provide instruction in diverse areas such as Indigenous ways of knowing, ecology, law and governance, economics, communication, business management, research and data management methods, and community capacity building.
Experiential learning and research
As a Bachelor of Indigenous Land Stewardship student, you will participate in three field courses; one at the beginning of Year 1, 2, and 3 that are specifically land-based. One additional course with a strong field component will be done by students individually in their fourth year.
Campus features
The award-winning
Forest Sciences Centre
on UBC’s Vancouver campus offers wireless study space, high-tech classrooms, and labs equipped with the latest technology.
The Faculty of Forestry also has two major
research forests
in British Columbia, and jointly manages a third, altogether totalling 25,000 hectares or more than 60,000 acres.
Send details
Why this program?
Has entrance requirements reflective of honouring and valuing the knowledges and experiences of Indigenous Peoples
Provides Indigenous-led education taught by Indigenous scholars, well-prepared allies, Elders, and knowledge keepers
Utilizes a highly relational, multi-disciplinary, multi-knowledge, and land-based system approach to learning
Fosters Indigenous-led land healing and action-oriented reconciliation
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
UBC Forest Sciences Centre
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Surrounded by 750 hectares of forest, UBC offers the chance to study in a forested environment. Learn from award-winning faculty members in the nature-inspired Forest Sciences Centre, whose main atrium and study area feature giant live plants and a large skylight supported by massive wood beams. As a Faculty of Forestry student, you'll also have access to two research forests for field schools and other learning opportunities.
Find out more
Your future
The Bachelor of Indigenous Land Stewardship program trains Indigenous Peoples and allies for careers with governments, resource sector businesses, private consulting and ENGOs involved with Indigenous resource stewardship. Students will be prepared to be policy, public administration, or resource experts who can work with Indigenous and Western knowledge systems emphasizing approaches for holistic and sustainable natural resource management.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Indigenous Land Stewardship
One of IB Biology (strongly recommended), IB Chemistry, IB Physics or IB Environmental Sciences
Positionality statement
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in Grade 11 and Grade 12.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences: Biology 11 or IB Biology HL or SL is strongly recommended
Social Studies
Visit program website
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC