Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/integrated-sciences/

Integrated Sciences
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Create your own degree in science with this highly flexible, highly interactive program that stresses active learning, group discussion, and collaborative research.
Why this program?
Design your own cross-disciplinary science degree.
Emphasis on field work – including trips to Iceland – promotes experiential learning.
Cultivate and focus your interests from broad science topics to specialized integrations.
Customize your courses to prepare for professional programs (medicine, law, education).
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The Integrated Sciences specialization is designed for highly motivated students whose interests in science cross disciplinary boundaries. The specialization allows you to design your own interdisciplinary course of study that better reflects your interests and can help prepare you for additional study in the health sciences, law, journalism, engineering, or business.
Once admitted into the program, you design your upper-level curriculum, which must bridge at least two disciplines within science or beyond. Individual curriculum is supplemented with Integrated Sciences “core” courses (ISCI courses). These courses are highly interactive with a focus on active learning, group discussion, and collaborative research. As an Integrated Sciences student, you’ll be assigned an IntSci Faculty Mentor to help you design your individual course of study.
Experiential learning and research
Interdisciplinary core courses are specifically designed to foster integration through self-directed learning and hands-on projects. Classes are small and often team-taught to encourage participation and highlight different perspectives.
You can participate in an eight-day research retreat each May, collaborating in groups of three to four to address an unsolved scientific problem.
The Integrated Sciences Mentoring Program pairs prospective students working on their degree proposal with senior ISCI students with the goal of cultivating a tight-knit ISCI community and helping students applying to the specialization gather feedback on their proposed curriculum.
Send details
Why this program?
Design your own cross-disciplinary science degree.
Emphasis on field work – including trips to Iceland – promotes experiential learning.
Cultivate and focus your interests from broad science topics to specialized integrations.
Customize your courses to prepare for professional programs (medicine, law, education).
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
CHEM 111 - Structure, Bonding, and Equilibrium in Chemistry
Fundamentals of bonding theories, structural chemistry and equilibrium with applications relevant to modern society.
BIOL 155 - Human Biology
The principles of biology with particular reference to the human body (anatomy and physiology).
EOSC 110 - The Solid Earth: A Dynamic Planet
Earth's origin, composition, structure, and natural resources. Plate tectonics as the driving force for volcanism, mountain building, and earthquakes.  Imaging Earth's interior. Environmental geoscience and sustainability. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list for the Faculty of Science section of  the Calendar.)
GEOG 121 - Geography, Environment and Globalization
Human geography of the modern world with particular attention to human-environment relationships, urbanization, and regional growth; trade and communications; environment and war; environmental governance and sustainability.
PHYS 101 - Energy and Waves
Fluids, harmonic oscillator, travelling waves, standing waves, sound, and interference of light waves, including diffraction.
BIOL 200 - Fundamentals of Cell Biology
Structure and function of plant and animal cells; membrane models, cytoplasmic organelles, biological information from gene to protein, the endomembrane system, secretion, intracellular digestion, endocytosis, transport processes, cytoskeleton and cell motility.
BIOC 202 - Introductory Medical Biochemistry
Introduction to proteins and enzymes, carbohydrate metabolism, and glucose homeostasis. The course emphasis is on human biochemistry and it is designed for students going into health science fields.
EOSC 212 - Topics in the Earth and Planetary Sciences
Cutting edge problems in earth, ocean, atmospheric and planetary sciences.  Topics will be introduced through discussions of the current literature.
CHEM 213 - Organic Chemistry
Spectroscopy of organic compounds.  Mechanistic analysis of chemical reactivity of common functional groups with a focus on carbon-carbon bond formation; functional group interconversion.  Preference will be given to students in Chemistry or Biochemistry specializations.
MATH 223 - Linear Algebra
Matrices, eigenvectors, diagonalization, orthogonality, linear systems, applications. Intended for Honours students.
ISCI 344 - Theory and Practice of Games in Economics and Evolution
Exploration of human and animal interactions: integrating evolutionary and economic perspectives to investigate individual and social behaviour.
ISCI 350 - Darwinian Medicine
Using the Darwinian theory of natural selection to explore explanations of infectious diseases, allergies, cancer, mental illness, and other human diseases. Priority to students in the Integrated Sciences Program.
ISCI 300 - Interdisciplinary Seminar
Critical analysis of recent scientific literature that combines disciplines that students are integrating in their Integrated Sciences Curriculum.
ISCI 311 - The Size of Things
Scaling as a general approach to laws governing the geometry, kinematics and dynamics of systems. Dimensional analysis, isometry and allometry applied to topics from Biology, Physics, Earth Science and Economics. Priority to students in the Integrated Sciences Program.
ISCI 361 - Field Course: Systems Approaches to Regional Sustainability
Systems science approaches encompassing geological, hydrological, ecological, atmospheric sciences, and energy systems to investigate a selected region of the world.  Course location will vary; fee payable prior to field course.
ISCI 422 - Models in Science
Meaning, nature, use, strengths and limitations of models as investigative tools in all scientific disciplines. Detailed investigation of selected model systems from different scientific disciplines. Priority to students in the Integrated Sciences Program.
ISCI 433 - Ethical Issues in Science
Theoretical and practical consideration of ethics in the practice, reporting, public impact and accountability of science.
ISCI 448 - Directed Studies
Permission of the Director is required.
CHEM 417 - Nuclear Chemistry and Radiochemistry
Basic treatment of the nucleus, with analogy to concepts in chemistry. Nuclear stabilities and associated radioactive decay processes. Nuclear structure. Applications of radioisotopes in chemistry. The interaction of radiation with matter.
MICB 447 - Experimental Molecular Biology
A laboratory course with a choice of independent, supervised research projects. Students develop protocols to carry out investigation of selected molecular biology problems.
Follow this program
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Leonard S. Klinck Building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Few universities allow you to design your own third- and fourth-year program of study. In Integrated Sciences,  you'll graduate with a unique degree earned within the same rigorous framework as all UBC science degrees.
Find out more
Your future
The flexible, cross-disciplinary nature of the specialization makes a BSc in Integrated Sciences an ideal undergraduate degree for motivated students entering medical, dental, law, journalism, pharmacy, veterinary medicine, or business school, or for those who plan to pursue graduate studies in a variety of other fields.
You’ll graduate with strong critical thinking, communication, and research skills, and the ability to work effectively in teams. These skills are highly sought after and are transferable to many workplaces.
Program graduates
PhD candidate in Biological Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Medical student, University of British Columbia
Associate attorney, Prowse Chowne LLP
Master of Public Health candidate, Johns Hopkins University
Physical therapist, Physioworks
Research assistant, BC Centre on Substance Use
UBC stories
"I quickly surprised myself by realizing that I much rather enjoyed spending my time with feet on solid ground, out in the community learning by doing – something my bookworm, high-school self could never have seen coming."
Aaron Bailey, Integrated Sciences
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry, and
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Vivian, a Schulich Leader Scholarship winner who chose UBC
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC