Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/international-relations-vancouver/

International Relations
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Gain a deeper understanding of pertinent world issues such as international diplomacy, global economics, security, and much more. Your coursework will span myriad subjects, from geography, anthropology, and Asian studies, to political science, sociology, and food, nutrition, and health.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Why this program?
Join a diverse group of students from around the world who care deeply about global issues and effecting change.
Understand global issues from multiple complex perspectives.
Easily integrate an international experience such as an exchange into your degree.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
International Relations is an interdisciplinary program that enables you to develop an in-depth understanding of international relations by combining the insights and perspectives of different disciplines, such as Economics, History, Political Science, Geography, Anthropology, and Asian Studies, with the study of languages. You will complete prerequisites during your first two years of study and apply for admission to the program at the end of your second year. You can select a Major or Minor in International Relations. Honours programs are available through the departments of Political Science or History.
Campus features
The Liu Institute for Global Issues pursues interdisciplinary and policy-related research and advocacy on global public policy issues related to human security. Its research agenda embraces international relations, human security, peace and disarmament, the environment, conflict and development, and global health and international justice issues. Research facilities include the Centre for Human Rights, Diversity and Identity.
Experiential learning and research
As an International Relations major, you have many opportunities to study abroad. Many students, for example, spend a semester on exchange or complete their fourth year seminar requirement with a Global Seminar or an International Service Learning experience. Examples include studying international security in Ethiopia, global citizenship in Guatemala, and the history of refugees in Uganda.
Send details
Why this program?
Join a diverse group of students from around the world who care deeply about global issues and effecting change.
Understand global issues from multiple complex perspectives.
Easily integrate an international experience such as an exchange into your degree.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
HIST 103 - World History Since 1900
International relations; changes in the nation-state system; the emergence and impact of major political ideologies; genocide; decolonization; the globalization of trade; and the dynamics of economic, social, cultural, and environmental change in a global context.
ECON 101 - Principles of Microeconomics
Elements of theory and of Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of markets and market behaviour, prices and costs, exchange and trade, competition and monopoly, distribution of income.
ECON 102 - Principles of Macroeconomics
Elements of theory and of Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of growth and business cycles, national income accounting, interest and exchange rates, money and banking, the balance of trade.
GEOG 121 - Geography, Environment and Globalization
Human geography of the modern world with particular attention to human-environment relationships, urbanization, and regional growth; trade and communications; environment and war; environmental governance and sustainability.
SOCI 100 - Introduction to Sociology
Introduction to problems in the analysis of social structures and processes. Basic sociological concepts will be introduced and their application demonstrated in various areas of sociology.
ECON 255 - Understanding Globalization
Social and economic implications for both rich and poor countries of lowered barriers to the international flows of information, capital, labour and goods.  May not be taken for credit by students with fourth-year standing.
POLI 260 - Introduction to Global Politics
Applies conceptual tools to topics such as war, conflict management, the global economy, poverty, and civil society.
ASIC 200 - Global Issues in the Arts and Sciences
Selected global issues explored through the methodologies and perspectives of both the physical and life sciences and the humanities and social sciences.
HIST 256 - History of Africa
An introduction to selected themes and historical approaches in African history. These may include African geography and identities, sources and methodology, pre-modern state formation, gender relations, world religions, labour systems, colonialism, and post-colonialism.
GEOG 220 - Geopolitics
Political geographic perspectives on todays interdependent world through three themes: borders, regions, and flows.
ECON 355 - Introduction to International Trade
The determinants of trade patterns, trade policy, tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade, political economy of protectionism, bilateral and multilateral trade disputes, trade liberalization, trade and development.
POLI 360 - Security Studies
The contemporary international security context: reorientation of the study of security, patterns of inter- and intrastate conflict and communal violence, dilemmas of international response and conflict management.
APSC 377 - Nuclear Weapons and Arms Control
The evolution and contemporary significance of nuclear weapons and arms control policy and technology from the perspective of the physical and life sciences and the social sciences and humanities.
HIST 391 - Human Rights in World History
Changing ideas about humanity and rights. Considers the relationship between human rights and the nation-state, imperialism, and capitalism. Assesses the efforts to end large-scale human rights violations and the role of the United Nations.
GRSJ 305 - Social Justice Issues in Community and International Organizing
Critical examination and practical applications of concepts, theories, methods, and strategies of gender-aware organizing at the community and international levels.
FRE 420 - The Economics of International Trade and the Environment
Market failure and gains from trade in the presence of natural resource externalities; the multilateral trading system and the environment; case studies in trade-related environmental impacts.
ECON 457 - Seminar in International Economic Relations
Selected topics focusing upon various issues arising in international economic relations. Open only to fourth-year students in the Major program in International Relations.
HIST 403 - Seminar in the History of International Relations
Selected topics in the history of international relations. Priority for registration will be given to fourth-year majors in the International Relations and History programs.
POLI 464 - Problems in International Relations
Content varies from year to year. Consult the departmental website. One section (of 3 credits) is reserved for fourth-year students in the Major program in International Relations.
GEOG 457 - Social and Behavioural Geography
Theories of social change in the global city; labour markets; poverty and inequality; social polarization; housing markets; gentrification and housing affordability; immigration and segregation; diversity and multiculturalism; transnationalism; the entrepreneurial state; the convivial city.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
UBC's Vancouver campus
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
As an International Relations student at UBC’s Vancouver campus, you will have the opportunity to learn from expert faculty and classmates from around the world and to engage on global issues that you care about. There are countless opportunities to get involved, such as the International Relations Students’ Association (IRSA), the Journal of International Affairs, the Outside-In Photo Journal, the Simon K. Y. Lee Global Lounge, Model United Nations, Study Abroad, International Coop, and much more.
Find out more
Your future
You can tailor your program to your specific interests to align with a diverse range of career opportunities, including but not limited to political aide; event planner; market analyst; foreign aid worker; human rights officer; lobbyist; activist; immigration officer; and social compliance analyst.
Program graduates
Civil society fellow, Aga Khan Foundation Canada
Global development manager, Kwantlen Polytechnic University
Impact and learning team leader, Save the Children UK
Business analyst, Arc’teryx
Recruiting lead, Facebook
Director of bilateral relations, Environment and Climate Change Canada
International development officer, Global Affairs Canada
Lawyer, Fasken Martineau Du Moulin LLP
UBC stories
Read about Georgia's international experiences, including work with The Aids Support Organization (TASO) in Uganda.
Georgia Anstey, International Relations
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Georgia, an International Relations major who travelled to Swaziland and Uganda
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC