Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/international-economics/

International Economics
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Gain a deep understanding of how the global economy works, as well as strong technical training that will allow you to go on to a career in business, government, or academia. This rigorous and challenging curriculum is built around core courses from the Vancouver School of Economics and the UBC Sauder School of Business.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Vancouver School of Economics
Degree:
Bachelor of International Economics
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The
Bachelor of International Economics (BIE)
is a distinct four-year, full-time degree offered by the Vancouver School of Economics at UBC with support from UBC Sauder School of Business. This academically rigorous degree provides strong technical training and a broad curriculum that examines topics such as international trade, international finance, international development, and environmental economics.
Campus features
UBC’s Vancouver School of Economics is consistently ranked number one in Canada and among the best in the world, with an established tradition of research excellence, high-quality graduate and undergraduate education, and community engagement.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
ECON 101 - Principles of Microeconomics
Elements of theory and of Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of markets and market behaviour, prices and costs, exchange and trade, competition and monopoly, distribution of income.
ECON 102 - Principles of Macroeconomics
Elements of theory and of Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of growth and business cycles, national income accounting, interest and exchange rates, money and banking, the balance of trade.
MATH 104 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Commerce and Social Sciences
Derivatives and rates of change, exponential and trigonometric functions, Newton's method, Taylor polynomials, maxima and minima, and graphing.
MATH 105 - Integral Calculus with Applications to Commerce and Social Sciences
Antiderivatives, the definite integral, techniques of integration, infinite series, partial derivatives, maxima and minima with constraints, discrete and continuous random variables.
COEC 293 - Financial Accounting
Construction and interpretation of financial reports prepared primarily for external use.
ECON 327 - Introduction to Empirical Methods
Basic tools for the statistical analysis of economic data. Registration restricted to students in the Bachelor of International Economics Program.
ECON 328 - Methods of Empirical Research
Empirical tools used in applied research, with emphasis on the linear regression model. Registration restricted to students in the Bachelor of International Economics program.
ECON 315 - Intermediate Microeconomics I
Consumer behaviour, producer theory, exchange, monopoly, oligopoly, externalities, public goods, general equilibrium and welfare economics. Registration restricted to students in the Bachelor of International Economics Program.
ECON 316 - Intermediate Microeconomics II
Advanced topics in intermediate microeconomics: risk and uncertainty, some concepts in game theory, adverse selection, moral hazard, bargaining, auctions. Registration restricted to students in the Bachelor of International Economics Program.
ECON 309 - Intermediate Open Economy Macroeconomics
The aggregate economy with emphasis on macroeconomic policy and international economic growth, money and inflation, unemployment, business cycles, and macroeconomic stabilization policy under fixed and flexible exchange rates. Registration restricted to students in the Bachelor of International Economics Program.
COEC 371 - Investment Theory
Basic concepts of finance, including security valuation, security markets, and financial decisions concerning risk and return.
ECON 370 - Benefit-Cost Analysis and the Economics of Project Evaluation
Techniques and problems in benefit-cost analysis of public projects. Examination of alternative approaches to public decision-making such as cost-effectiveness analysis and multiple-objective frameworks. Case studies of projects in the areas of natural resources, the environment, human resources, public services, and transportation.
ECON 441 - The Process of Economic Development
Industrialization of an agrarian economy; how the West grew rich; history of Japanese development; technical progress and growth; evolution of the patterns of income distribution; role of international trade in development; environment and development.
COEC 475 - The Economics & Policy of the Environment, Energy, and Natural Resources
Economic analysis of environmental problems, energy systems, and natural resources. Policy options to help resolve these issues.
COEC 370 - Corporate Finance
Corporate enterprise decisions including capital budgeting; capital structure choice; and financial policies, tools, and valuation.
ECON 493 - Advanced Empirical Methods for International Economics
Econometric methodologies necessary to conduct applied research, including time series analysis and panel data methods; review of empirical work in international economics.  Registration restricted to students in the Bachelor of International Economics Program.
ECON 494 - Seminar in Applied International Economics
Focus on a particular aspect of applied international economics. Independent empirical research project required.  Registration restricted to students in the Bachelor of International Economics Program.
ECON 455 - International Trade
International trade theory and policy in general equilibrium; relative costs, factor proportions, imperfect competition and the pattern of trade; efficiency and distribution. Credit granted for only one of ECON355 and ECON455.
COEC 498 - International Business Management
Development of general environmental framework for international business studies by drawing on international and development economics, research into government-business relations and studies in comparative socio-cultural systems and political systems.
COEC 437 - Database Technology
Theory and technology of database management from an applications perspective; database design; database administration.
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time. As an International Economics graduate, you’ll be equipped for a career as a professional or academic economist in the public, non-governmental, or private sectors.
Program graduates
Business Analyst, Electronic Arts
Research Assistant, Office of the Parliamentary Budget Officer
Graduate Student in Computational Finance, Carnegie Mellon
Consulting Analyst, Willis Towers Watson
Senior Consultant, Deloitte
Research Assistant, Bank of Canada
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
International Economics
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation (will consider Chemistry and Physics in this category)
Social Studies (only Economics, Ethics, First Nations or Contemporary Indigenous Studies, Geography, Law, Psychology, and Social Studies)
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life on Snapchat
Read admissions blog post
Meet Logan, an entrepreneurial Economics major, scholarship winner, and recent Rhodes Scholar
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC