Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/interdisciplinary-studies/

Interdisciplinary Studies
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
In Interdisciplinary Studies, you'll design a cross-disciplinary program of study out of courses that are drawn from two of four broad categories – the Creative and Performing Arts, the Humanities, the Physical and Life Sciences, and the Social Sciences – and that suit your individual learning and career goals.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
If you are an independent student with a wide curiosity across different areas of interest, this program offers you the opportunity to expand your studies beyond narrow academic disciplines and design a cross-disciplinary course of study that focuses on two of the following categories: Humanities, Sciences, Social Sciences, or Creative and Performing Arts. This program offers the equivalent of a Major in Interdisciplinary Studies as an alternative to the department-based Major.
Interdisciplinary Studies sample programs
Campus features
With 11 separate academic Faculties, 11 Schools, and 2 Colleges at UBC’s Vancouver campus (not to mention many outstanding museums, and other facilities of learning), and hundreds of undergraduate course options, there is a virtually infinite range of possibilities for constructing a self-tailored program of study.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
FNIS 100 - Indigenous Foundations
The historical, cultural, political, economic and legal issues that inform the experiences of Indigenous peoples in Canada, examined from both Indigenous and non-Indigenous perspectives.
ECON 101 - Principles of Microeconomics
Elements of theory and of Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of markets and market behaviour, prices and costs, exchange and trade, competition and monopoly, distribution of income.
HIST 102 - World History from 1500 to the Twentieth Century
The civilizations of Asia, Europe, Africa and the Americas, with emphasis on the political, economic, ecological and cultural links among them, and the impact of oceanic contact, imperialism, warfare, migration, and globalization.
SPAN 101 - Beginners' Spanish I
Fundamentals of the Spanish language; speaking and writing on everyday activities and future plans in the context of common tasks and situations, including interactive communication, grammatical explanations, and cultural awareness.
MDVL 210 - Introduction to Medieval Studies
A survey of the study of the medieval period in Western Europe (400-1550), integrating history, literature, and the arts; topics vary from year to year; interested students should consult the Medieval Studies Advisor.
CDST 250 - Introduction to Canada
Approaches to the study of Canada from an interdisciplinary perspective, including cultural, political, historical, and economic dimensions.
COGS 200 - Introduction to Cognitive Systems
Interdisciplinary examination of human mental processes and how these are mediated by the brain. Will draw on cognitive psychology, linguistics, cognitive neuroscience, philosophy, artificial intelligence.
FNEL 281 - Sounds of Endangered Languages: Conservation and Revitalization
Development of skills in the perception and transcription of speech sounds in endangered languages, focusing on the diversity within BC Aboriginal languages. Capacity-building techniques for digital recording, editing, analysis, and archiving; guided by community-based ethical protocols and conservation/revitalization goals.
POLI 260 - Introduction to Global Politics
Applies conceptual tools to topics such as war, conflict management, the global economy, poverty, and civil society.
SOCI 354 - Community Studies
Study of the organization of human communities; a focus upon collective activities including family, work, neighbourhood, and formal and informal networks.
CRWR 301 - Intermediate Writing Poetry
The writing of poetry in various forms using a combination of workshopping and online modules. Manuscript submission not required for admission.
SCAN 337 - Scandinavian Cinema (in English)
An introduction to the cinemas of the Scandinavian region.
HIST 357 - History of Mexico
Examines themes in the last five hundred years of Mexican history, with an emphasis on the critical reading of primary sources and the use of a variety of texts that may include letters, diaries, paintings, photographs, novels, and movies.
GERM 403 - Studies in Modern German Culture (in English)
Topics of special interest, varying from year to year.
RGLA 471 - Advanced Seminar in Religion and Literature
Application of critical methods to one or more major authors.
CENS 404 - Gender and Nation: Women's State in Modern Central, Eastern and Northern European Literatures and Cultures
Cultural and social discourses of gender in literary works written in Central, Eastern and Northern Europe roughly between 1850 - 1930.
HIST 403 - Seminar in the History of International Relations
Selected topics in the history of international relations. Priority for registration will be given to fourth-year majors in the International Relations and History programs.
GRSJ 401 - Body, Gender and Society
An interdisciplinary examination of the body, exploring how social relations and space are implicated in the constitution and experience of gendered bodies and identities, with an emphasis on feminist analyses of body-societal relations.
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Al, a lover of books and bacteria who double majored in English Literature and Microbiology
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC