Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/integrated-computer-science/

Integrated Computer Science
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Visit program website
This 20-month second-degree program is designed for university graduates interested in making a career transition into information technology, or combining their own field with computer science. Integrated Computer Science can help you discover a wonderful career in information technology that lets you explore your passions while making a significant contribution to society.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Computer Science
Length
20 mos
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The Bachelor of Computer Science (Integrated Computer Science) program, or BCS (ICS), is a 20-month second degree program. It is designed for university graduates interested in making a career transition into information technology or interested in combining their own field with computer science.
Campus features
This program is the only Bachelor of Computer Science offered in Western Canada.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
CPSC 110 - Computation, Programs, and Programming
Fundamental program and computation structures. Introductory programming skills. Computation as a tool for information processing, simulation and modeling, and interacting with the world.
STAT 203 - Statistical Methods
Organizing, displaying and summarizing data. Inference estimation and testing for elementary probability models. Not for credit towards a B.Sc. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section in the Calendar.)
MATH 180 - Differential Calculus with Physical Applications
Topics as for Math 100; intended for students with no previous knowledge of Calculus. Not for credit for students with AP Calculus AB, AP Calculus BC, or a passing score on the UBC-SFU-UVIC-UNBC Calculus Challenge Examination.
CPSC 121 - Models of Computation
Physical and mathematical structures of computation.  Boolean algebra and combinations logic circuits; proof techniques; functions and sequential circuits; sets and relations; finite state machines; sequential instruction execution.
CPSC 210 - Software Construction
Design, development, and analysis of robust software components. Topics such as software design, computational models, data structures, debugging, and testing.
CPSC 221 - Basic Algorithms and Data Structures
Design and analysis of basic algorithms and data structures; algorithm analysis methods, searching and sorting algorithms, basic data structures, graphs and concurrency.
CPSC 213 - Introduction to Computer Systems
Software architecture, operating systems, and I/O architectures.  Relationships between application software, operating systems, and computing hardware; critical sections, deadlock avoidance, and performance; principles and operation of disks and networks.
CPSC 310 - Introduction to Software Engineering
Specification, design, implementation and maintenance of large, multi-module software systems. Principles, techniques, methodologies and tools for computer aided software engineering (CASE); human-computer interfaces, reactive systems, hardware-software interfaces and distributed applications.
CPSC 320 - Intermediate Algorithm Design and Analysis
Systematic study of basic concepts and techniques in the design and analysis of algorithms, illustrated from various problem areas. Topics include: models of computation; choice of data structures; graph-theoretic, algebraic, and text processing algorithms.
CPSC 417 - Computer Networking
Network protocols and architecture including internetworking, the Internet, layered communication protocols, routing, flow and congestion control, network performance, wired and wireless data communication.
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Preparatory programs
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Leemor, and find out how a Women in Computer Science discussion led to an internship at Microsoft
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC