Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/integrated-engineering/

Integrated Engineering
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Integrated Engineering offers the broadest education of the engineering disciplines by allowing you to tailor your degree to your interests, giving you precisely the level of focus that you desire.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Applied Science (Engineering)
Degree:
Bachelor of Applied Science (Engineering)
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The Integrated Engineering (IGEN) program will provide you with a broad, non-specialized engineering education. Rather than earning a degree in only one specific area of engineering, you will gain background in core areas such as materials, solid mechanics, fluid mechanics, and systems involving chemical, electro-mechanical, and biological components. In addition to the core, you may select 18 credits of technical electives to explore your interests further.
The program emphasizes engineering design through design project courses taken in each term. Most of the design projects directly involve knowledge gained in courses in the IGEN program, but some projects require independent learning. The program is accredited by the Canadian Engineering Accreditation Board.
Campus features
UBC Engineering students and faculty are frequent award winners in international competitions and scholarship honours.
Engineering in the news
What can you do with this major after graduation?
Why choose Engineering?
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
APSC 100 - Introduction to Engineering I
An introduction to the engineering profession including: roles and responsibilities of the engineer, the engineering disciplines, sustainability, an introduction to the engineering design process, introduction and application of the relevant foundational scientific principles, prototyping, engineering graphics, technical communication, and engineering ethics.
CHEM 154 - Chemistry for Engineering
Chemical bonding, properties of matter. Chemical thermodynamics with applications to phase equilibria, aqueous equilibria and electrochemistry. Processes at surfaces.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
PHYS 157 - Introductory Physics for Engineers I
Heat, thermodynamics, oscillations, waves, and sound.
PHYS 170 - Mechanics I
Statics of particles, equilibrium or rigid bodies, rigid body statics and internal forces, trusses; kinematics: rectilinear motion; dynamics:  Newton's second law, friction, impulse, momentum, work and energy.
APSC 278 - Engineering Materials
Atomic bonding; crystal structures and imperfections; properties of metals, ceramics, polymers, wood, concrete and fibre composite materials; selection of materials; corrosion; mechanical testing and heat treatment.
CHBE 241 - Material and Energy Balances
Introduction to Chemical and Biological Engineering; units; stoichiometry; phase equilibria; material balances; energy balances.
CIVL 215 - Fluid Mechanics I
Fluid properties, hydrostatics, kinematics, and fluid dynamics: energy and momentum methods with applications. Dimensional analysis, modelling, introduction to flow in pipes and forces on immersed objects.
ELEC 204 - Linear Circuits
Basic concepts and analysis techniques in the context of electric and electronic circuits including Bode plots and the Laplace transform. Treatment of RLC circuits, phasors, op-amps. Introduction to nonlinear circuit elements, diodes, BJT, FET circuits.
IGEN 230 - Introduction to Engineering Design
Introduction to engineering design methods, problem solving, working individually and in teams, and methods of communication of results. Engineering design projects will be assigned. Restricted to students in the second year of the Integrated Engineering program.
CHBE 344 - Unit Operations I
Characterization of particles, droplets, and bubbles; comminution, screening and classification; filtration, sedimentation, centrifugal separations and fluidization; thermal operations including evaporation and crystalization.
ELEC 344 - Applied Electronics and Electromechanics
Characteristics of semiconductor devices; analog circuits; force and torque production; motor principles and torque-speed characteristics; principles of power electronics. Not open to students in Electrical and Computer Engineering.
IGEN 330 - Intermediate Engineering Design
Intermediate level engineering design projects involving material in the curriculum of the Integrated Engineering program.
MECH 360 - Mechanics of Materials
Beam deflections, singularity functions; use of tabulated solutions; column buckling; Castigliano's theorem, statically indeterminate beams, bending of beams with asymmetric cross-sections, shear centre; principal stresses and stress invariants in three dimensions.
MTRL 280 - Materials in Design
The process of materials selection for different design criteria; the importance of shape and processing variables; the use of computer software in the selection process.
APSC 450 - Professional Engineering Practice
Legislation affecting the practice of engineering; ethical principles and responsibilities. Management of engineering enterprises; labour relations, safety and environmental legislation. Restricted to engineering undergraduate students in the final year of their program.
CIVL 305 - Introduction to Environmental Engineering
Environmental ethics and legislation; risk assessment; urban water sources and sinks; water pollutants and impacts; mass balance and reactor design concepts; water and wastewater treatment; the environmental impact assessment process.
IGEN 430 - Advanced Engineering Design Projects
Projects involving all material in the curriculum of the Integrated Engineering Program. Students will be expected to propose a project and complete the design and construction of a prototype. Restricted to students in the fourth year of the Integrated Engineering program.
MINE 482 - Maintenance Engineering
Analytical foundation for maintenance of industrial plant equipment and mobile equipment in various production environments; maintenance planning and management, life cycle analysis, reliability theory, total quality maintenance, condition monitoring.
MTRL 340 - Manufacturing in Materials Engineering
Manufacturing processes from a materials perspective; metal casting, heat treating processes, forming processes, machining, and joining. Role of manufacturing in microstructure and material properties development and on component performance.
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Applied Science (Engineering)
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
IB Chemistry
IB Physics
Academically strong candidates missing either IB Chemistry or IB Physics may be evaluated on a case-by-case basis
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Fawaz, an Engineering student, researcher, and fitness enthusiast
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC