Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/journalism/

Journalism
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Visit program website
UBC Journalism is a unique, boutique journalism master's program, and the only graduate journalism program in western Canada. It is designed to provide you with professional experience and academic grounding, to help you succeed as a journalist in any medium. You'll learn everything from long-form writing to web, video and audio production, social media analytics, investigative reporting skills, and critical analysis of news.
Why this program?
Alumni have gone on to successful careers at major media organizations around the world.
Of UBC Journalism alumni, 91% credit the program for helping them get where they are today.
Enjoy state-of-the-art facilities, including media lab, recording sound booth, HD video-editing suite, and more.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Master of Journalism
Length
20 mos
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The Master of Journalism degree is a full-time, intensive program that includes a summer internship. It provides students with professional experience and academic grounding to help them prosper in a digital knowledge economy.
The program aims to develop graduates who understand the evolving media environment and use journalistic practices to contribute to meaningful public discourse across all forms of media. Students acquire the knowledge and practical skills they need to navigate the challenges and opportunities of the evolving digital media ecosystem, developing skills such as investigative reporting, web, audio and video production, data visualization, virtual reality and social media.
Our distinctive approach to journalism education has two components: academic specialization and professional training. Students undertake a program of study focused on an academic area relevant to their background and passions. The academic teaching is hands-on training in multimedia production alongside experienced professionals.
Campus features
New media lab
Newsroom
Social media lab
Recording sound booth
HD video-editing suite
360 video and virtual reality facilities
The Thunderbird
is the student publication of the School of Journalism at UBC, with the mission of showcasing work of students at the school.
The Thunderbird
Send details
Why this program?
Alumni have gone on to successful careers at major media organizations around the world.
Of UBC Journalism alumni, 91% credit the program for helping them get where they are today.
Enjoy state-of-the-art facilities, including media lab, recording sound booth, HD video-editing suite, and more.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
JRNL 503 - Journalism Practice and Standards
JRNL 515 - c Integrated Journalism
Grammar and syntax of media across platforms; skills and knowledge-based model of learning with an emphasis on digital literacy.
JRNL 533 - Media Ethics & Leadership
JRNL 534 - Media Law
JRNL 550 - Feature Writing
JRNL 548 - Final Research Project
JRNL 520 - Special Topics in Contemporary Journalism
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Your future
Graduates from UBC’s Journalism program go on to work at respected global news outlets. Recent graduates have taken positions at the CBC in various bureaus around the world, Radio-Canada, CTV, Al Jazeera English,
The New Yorker
, Google (media outreach), the
Globe and Mail
,
Vice
,
National Post
, and in media and communications positions in various NGOs and post-secondary institutions.
Program graduates
Host/producer/writer, “In Concert” weekly classical music show, CBC
Assignment editor, Global National
Associate editor,
The Huffington Post Canada
Online reporter and editor, CTV Vancouver
View larger image
Related programs
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Duncan, a UBC Law School graduate turned journalist and journalism instructor
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC