Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/languages/

Languages
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
This program covers many regions of the world as you study linguistics and culture, and widen your understanding of world languages.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Faculty of Creative and Critical Studies
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
This program is for students looking for an international perspective. You can take courses in Spanish and French, and can choose from a variety of classes in a third language, such as German, Japanese, Korean, and Mandarin. The study of languages provides an avenue of study for several regions of the world. You’ll graduate with not only language skills, but also with insight into global cultures and their impact on Canada and the world.
Experiential learning and research
You’ll access real-world learning experiences through community events organized by Kelowna’s French Cultural Centre. There are also opportunities to travel abroad and in Canada. UBC has study exchange agreements with 13 universities in Central and South America, and seven in Spain, if you wish to study abroad to enhance your coursework. You can apply to work in France as an English-language teaching assistant for an eight-month period. Plus, you can take advantage of the Canadian government’s five-week French-immersion bursary program to study at one of 20 institutions across Canada.
In fourth year, you’ll have the option of completing directed studies in French – working in French with a faculty member, where you will complete directed readings and research in a clearly defined area of French literature, culture, or language, culminating in the writing of a substantive assignment – or Spanish, where you will research topics in Peninsular Spanish or Spanish American literature, culture, language, and linguistics.
The Faculty of Creative and Critical Studies offers $2,500 undergraduate research awards that provide undergraduate students support to engage in research and creative activities over the summer months.
Kelowna's French Cultural Centre
English-language teaching assistant in France
French-immersion bursary program
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
FREN 122 - Intermediate French I
Refinement of reading, writing and speaking skills through the study of contemporary literature and other authentic documents of the French-speaking world. Corresponds to level B1 of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR).
GERM 101 - Oral Expression I
For beginners who have some exposure to the grammatical and syntactic elements. The course will consist of oral and aural practice, basic conversation, and vocabulary expansion exercises. Students will be expected to participate actively in group activities and to give oral presentations.
SPAN 101 - Beginners' Spanish I
Development of listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Spanish. Corresponds to level A1 of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR).
CHIN 101 - Basic Chinese II
Continuation of CHIN 100. Not available to students who have obtained the equivalent of CEFR Level A1 in any Chinese language.
FREN 220 - French Literature and Textual Analysis I
An introduction to literary analysis and academic writing through the study of representative works from the Middle Ages to the seventeenth century.
FREN 223 - French Language and Style II
Grammar, vocabulary, composition, language in context.
SPAN 201 - Advanced Beginners' Spanish I
Grammar, introduction to composition, oral practice, and reading. Corresponds to level A2 of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR).
SPAN 312 - Spanish and English in Contrast
Linguistic analysis of the similarities and differences between Spanish and English. The sound systems and the formation of words and sentences will be compared. Difficulties for second-language learning will also be discussed.
FREN 345 - Techniques of Oral Expression in French II
Further training in formal oral presentation in French.  Emphasis on structured expression and oral delivery.
JPST 395 - Topics in Modern Japanese Literature and Culture
A range of literary and cultural topics such as film adaptations, travel writing, manga, horror, and food culture.
SPAN 301 - Intermediate Spanish I
Intermediate grammar, composition, oral practice, and reading. Corresponds to level B1 of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR).
SPAN 408 - Hispanic Cultures in Cinema
This course explores Latin American and Spanish films both as artistic endeavors (formal qualities, cinematic styles and influences) and as cultural documents of the nation in question.
FREN 461 - 17th- and 18th-Century French Comedy
Explores French comedies through a selection of works by authors such as Molière, Lesage, Marivaux, and Beaumarchais. Examines the aesthetic and political forces that shaped these plays, as well as the relationships between comedy and the representation of class and gender. Plays will be studied in their socio-historical context and approached using current literary criticism.
FREN 446 - French for Play: Creative Oral Performance
French vocabulary and pronunciation. Participation in creative and literary oral performances, works or segments taken from a selection of fables, fairytales, and comedies. Exposure to regional and foreign accents through a selection of audiovisual material. Of use to students pursuing teaching careers or contemplating graduate programs in French.
SPAN 455 - Hispanic Novel
Novels will be discussed with a focus on Spanish and Latin American history, politics, and cultural values as they are reflected in the literary works being studied.
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Dr. Chapman, an English professor who discovered 89 lost works of literature
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC