Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/latin-american-studies-vancouver/

Latin American Studies
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Build a broad foundation of knowledge in the peoples and places of Latin America. This interdisciplinary program includes courses in anthropology, art history, geography, history, and political science as well as language instruction in Spanish and Portuguese.
Why this program?
Enjoy the flexibility of taking courses from multiple departments to build your degree around your unique interests.
Gain a multifaceted understanding of Latin America through the lenses of language, politics, geography, culture, and history.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Latin American Studies offers you broad exposure to the peoples and places of Latin America. This interdisciplinary program is highly flexible and can draw from courses in multiple departments, including Anthropology; Art History; Visual Art; French, Hispanic, and Italian Studies; Geography; History; School of Social Work; or Political Science, as well as Spanish or Portuguese language. You will gain considerable insight into a region that has a significant impact on cultural, economic, and political matters around the globe. You can select a major or minor in Latin American Studies, and can enjoy a term abroad in alternating years.
Experiential learning
UBC has exchange agreements with 13 universities in Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, and Mexico. The Tec de Monterrey relationship is especially close. The Tec de Monterrey-UBC House residence opened in September 2003, with the mission of furthering interaction among domestic and international students.
Campus features
The Department of French, Hispanic and Italian Studies offers free tutoring in Spanish, Portuguese, and other languages, and additional educational support to students through the Learning Centre. The Department also hosts language conversation tables and cultural events through the Cultural Club, giving students a chance to further their exploration of language and culture outside of the classroom.
Send details
Why this program?
Enjoy the flexibility of taking courses from multiple departments to build your degree around your unique interests.
Gain a multifaceted understanding of Latin America through the lenses of language, politics, geography, culture, and history.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
LAST 100 - Introduction to Latin American Studies
An overview of the culture and society of Latin America from ancient to contemporary times and from Argentina to Mexico.
SPAN 101 - Beginners' Spanish I
Fundamentals of the Spanish language; speaking and writing on everyday activities and future plans in the context of common tasks and situations, including interactive communication, grammatical explanations, and cultural awareness.
HIST 107 - Global Indigenous Histories
An introduction to the experiences of Indigenous peoples and the nature of colonialisms around the world since 1500, and an introduction to historical practices and perspectives.
LAST 205 - Issues of Development in Modern Latin America
Theory of development in the Latin American context: current problems and development alternatives.
LAST 201 - Popular Culture in Latin America
The culture of everyday life, both rural and urban: issues of identity, popular memory, resistance, negotiation, as expressed through ritual, crafts, the body, social movements, films, music, and literature.
HIST 250 - Latin American History
Exploring themes of colonialism, indigenous life, national imaginaries, dictatorships and transitions to democracy through different forms of telling Latin American history. Includes epistolary writing, maps, eyewitness accounts, chronicles, actions, novels, films, built environment and city plans, testimonios, and plays.
SPAN 221 - Introduction to Hispanic Literature
Major texts, authors, periods, and genres of Hispanic literature; key concepts, terminology, and practices of literary analysis that serve as a foundation for higher-level Spanish literature courses.
LAST 301 - Human and Civil Rights in Latin America
Focuses on human rights movements; state violence and impunity; reform of criminal justice systems; rights of indigenous peoples, women, and minorities; international protection of human rights; the UN and inter-American systems.
SPAN 301 - Advanced Spanish I
Advanced grammar structures in context, lexical repertoire, fluency and cultural awareness to broaden and develop language skills.
ANTH 332 - Oral Tradition
An ethnographic perspective on the dynamics of oral tradition in various oral and literate cultures; the characteristics and roles of oral genres including folktale, genealogy, oral history, autobiography, and myth in these societies; and the relationship between orality and literacy.
HIST 357 - History of Mexico
Examines themes in the last five hundred years of Mexican history, with an emphasis on the critical reading of primary sources and the use of a variety of texts that may include letters, diaries, paintings, photographs, novels, and movies.
POLI 332 - Politics and Government of Latin America
A comparative examination of democracy and authoritarianism in Latin America: populism, corporatism, bureaucratic authoritarianism, transitions from authoritarianism, and contemporary debates on the quality and diversity of democratic institutions.
SOWK 440 - Integrative Seminars in Social Work
A series of seminars offered during the final term of studies which address salient issues in social policy and social work practice and draw upon combined knowledge from social work and related disciplines.
SPAN 405 - Celebrating Diversity: Topics in Peninsular and Latin-American Culture
Selected topics relating to the diversity of cultural production in Peninsular and Latin American Culture.  Consult the Department for this year's offerings.
GEOG 495 - Geographies of Social Movements in the Americas
The politics of North-South solidarity in theory and practice through community service learning models.
HIST 455 - Gender and Sexuality in Latin America
The construction of gender ideologies and gendered and sexual identities, including masculine, feminine, and transgendered, in modern Latin America.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
View larger image
UBC's Buchanan Buildings
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
From Latin music dance parties to film screenings, there are plenty of opportunities for students to deepen their cultural awareness and linguistic skills through events organized by Latin American Studies and by student clubs and associations.
Find out more
Your future
Students from Latin American Studies graduate with wide-ranging skills that are in demand in diverse industries and governmental settings. The program serves as the foundation for careers in public service, government, politics, international business, education, humanitarian work, international law, global health care, non-profit organizations, NGOs, foreign service, tourism, translation and interpretation, land and food industries, and many other fields.
Program graduates
Translation Coordinator, Arsayian Foundation in Argentina
International Logistics Coordinator, World Vets
View larger image
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Meet Georgia, and learn how studying abroad is making her a stronger global citizen
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC