Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/law/

Law
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Visit program website
At the Peter A. Allard School of Law, you'll receive a first-rate legal education that balances traditional areas of practice with emerging fields of specialization. Your first year will cover common curriculum – with classes in Canadian Constitutional Law, Contracts, Criminal Law and Procedure, Property Law, Torts, Legal Research and Writing, Public Law and Transnational Law – and your second and third years offer a wide range of courses and many opportunities for specialization.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Peter A. Allard School of Law
Degree:
Juris Doctor
Length
3 yrs
Co-op
No
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The Peter A. Allard School of Law is one of Canada’s leading law schools, with a global influence. Innovative researchers, inspiring teachers, and outstanding graduates have established a national reputation and international reach. The Allard School of Law is committed to being one of the world’s great centres for legal education and research.
Your first year will cover common curriculum – with classes in Canadian constitutional law, contracts, criminal law and procedure, property law, torts, legal research and writing, public law, and transnational law – and your second and third years offer a wide range of courses and many opportunities for specialization.
Many students choose to complete an academic specialization or concentration, such as:
Business law concentration
Specialization in Aboriginal law
Specialization in environmental and natural resource law
Specialization in law and social justice
Juris Doctor Program Admissions Guide
Experiential learning
Students can participate in numerous clinics and externships to gain real-world experience:
Business Law Clinic
Criminal Clinic
Indigenous Community Legal Clinic
Innocence Project
International Justice and Human Rights Clinic
Judicial Externship
Law Student’s Legal Advice Program
RISE Women’s Legal Centre
Notable alumni
The Peter A. Allard School of Law’s more than 10,000 alumni include:
Kim Campbell, former Prime Minister of Canada
Ujjal Dosanjh, former Premier of British Columbia and former Canadian Minister of Health, currently serving as MP for Vancouver South
Mike Harcourt, former Premier of British Columbia
Lance Finch, Chief Justice of British Columbia
Frank Iacobucci, former Justice of the Supreme Court of Canada
Wally Oppal, former BC Supreme Court Judge
Steven L. Point, BC Lieutenant-Governor
Kim Baird, former Chief of the Tsawwassen First Nation
Alfred Scow, the first Aboriginal lawyer called to the BC bar
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
LAW 201 - Canadian Constitutional Law
Principles of Canadian constitutional law, including Canadian federalism, the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, and the unique constitutional status and rights of Aboriginal Peoples in Canada.
LAW 211 - Contracts
Historical development; formation and enforceability of contracts; parties; contractual terms; changes of circumstances; remedies for breach.
LAW 221 - Criminal Law and Procedure
Bases of criminal responsibility; principles and objectives of the criminal law and procedure; pre-trial procedure.
LAW 231 - Property Law
The legal concept of ownership and its changing nature and application, including equitable principles, the acquisition and transfer of interests, the regulation of use, Aboriginal title, and statute-based systems for registering interests in land.
LAW 241 - Torts
A study of the bases of civil liability for intentionally and accidentally caused harms.
LAW 372 - Administrative Law
The system of legal control exercised through non-judicial agencies and the relationship of the courts to the administrative process.
LAW 300 - Jurisprudence and Critical Perspectives
Introduction to the basic principles of legal theory and critical perspectives on law.
LAW 388 - Environmental Law in Practice
Jurisdiction, remedies and administrative schemes as they apply in practice to selected environmental law problems. Not offered each year, consult Faculty.
LAW 395 - Forest Law
Acquisition of timber interests; development, financing and organization of timber companies; regulation of exploitation industry interests; management taxation. Not offered each year; consult Faculty.
LAW 459 - Business Organizations
A conceptual overview of business organizations in Canada, including partnerships and corporations, and the rights and duties of shareholders and directors.
LAW 468 - Ethics and Professionalism
The ethical dimensions of legal practice in Canada, including legislation, regulations, rules of professional conduct and cases, and the roles of lawyers, the legal profession and the legal system including their role in securing access to justice.
LAW 453 - Equitable Remedies
The history and development of equitable remedies such as specific performance, injunctions, declarations, relief against forfeiture, and tracing.
LAW 422 - Intellectual Property
Copyright, patents, trade marks, industrial design, the protection of computer software, and torts such as passing-off and breach of confidence.
LAW 425 - Cyberspace Law
Legal issues arising from the development of the Internet and cyberspace.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
View larger image
Allard Hall
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Allard Hall creates a welcoming and inspiring place of learning and research for students, faculty, staff, and the wider legal community. The facility is a beautiful, light-filled, four-storey, 141,000-square-foot building with spacious, contemporary classrooms, dedicated group study rooms, and abundant informal learning spaces.
Find out more
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
UBC stories
"My UBC legal training has made me a more astute journalist. The Aboriginal students I met at UBC Law School continue to be some of my closest friends and have been invaluable contacts for reporting on First Nations issues."
Duncan McCue, Law
Read the full story
Preparatory programs
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Altay, a UBC student who competed at the World Model UN in Singapore
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC