Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/linguistics/

Linguistics
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Linguistics is a highly interdisciplinary field which combines research methods from the humanities and the social, natural, and mathematical sciences to study human language. Linguists are interested in questions such as: What are the structural properties of languages, at the of sounds, words, sentences, and meaning? To what extent are the languages of the world similar or different? How do languages change over time?
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Linguistics is the systematic study of how language works. Linguists work on sound systems (phonetics and phonology), on the relationship between form and meaning (morphology, syntax, and semantics), and on how languages change over time.
In introductory-level Linguistics courses, you study language systems by analyzing data from languages of contrasting structure. You can expect to study English, but also languages like Cantonese, local First Nations languages, Latin, or Haitian Creole.
Campus features
UBC has teaching programs in 23 different languages.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
LING 142 - Language and Technology
Fundamentals of how computational linguistics makes possible automated speech with Siri, automated translation with Google Translate, and related internet and social-media technologies. Issues in ethics and language-data ownership. Emphasis on applications relating to Arts disciplines. No computing background required.
LING 200 - Linguistic Theory and Analysis I
Introduction to phonetics and phonology; training in the identification and production of speech sounds; principles and methods for describing and writing the sound system of a language; phonological theory with reference to selected languages; the interface between phonology and morphology. Analytical practice and seminar discussion.
LING 201 - Linguistic Theory and Analysis II
Introduction to grammatical analysis; morphology, syntax, semantics; synchronic analysis and description with illustrations from various languages. Analytical practice and seminar discussion.
LING 222 - Language Acquisition
Audition and speech perception, phonological organization, word learning, syntax, and pragmatics.
LING 300 - Studies in Grammar
Introduction to syntactic analysis and theory, with emphasis on description and analysis of data from a wide variety of languages.
LING 311 - Studies in Phonology
Introduction to phonological analysis and theory, with a strong emphasis on description and analysis of data from a wide variety of languages.
LING 313 - Introduction to Linguistic Phonetics and Speech Science
The articulatory and acoustic properties of speech production and perception, including practice in phonetic transcription, instrumental recording, and the analysis of normal speech.
LING 327 - Introduction to Semantics
The analysis and theory of linguistic meaning with emphasis on formal techniques for semantic analysis and their application to empirical phenomena in language, including pragmatics.
LING 333 - Research Methods for Linguistics
Research methods used in linguistics and speech science. Emphasis on scientific reasoning, critical thinking, experimental design, and the ethics and methods of linguistic data-collection.
LING 242 - Computational Tools for Linguistic Analysis
Practical skills for analyzing language using the Python programming language and relevant packages.
LING 315 - Sociolinguistics
The systematic study of language as a social phenomenon.
LING 319 - Historical Linguistics
How and why languages change over time, and how languages can be grouped into families based on historical relationships. Methods of comparative and internal reconstruction of phonological, morphological, syntactic, semantic change. Social factors in language change. Not offered every year.
LING 345 - Pragmatics
Selected topics in pragmatics and information structure, including variations in their cross-linguistic expression and the corresponding influence of sentence form on context.
LING 405 - Morphology
Analytic and theoretical consideration of the interrelation of word formation, sound patterning, and meaningful sentence structure. Not offered every year.
LING 342 - Computational Models of Language
A re-examination of major areas of linguistics from a computational perspective, including popular formalisms and algorithms associated with morphology, syntax, semantics, and discourse.
LING 415 - Language Across Time, Geography, and Society
A cross-linguistic exploration of language change, discussing theories, data, and methods. Topics can include change across historical time periods, lifespan; change across regions, within areas; change due to language contact and other social and cultural factors.
LING 447 - Topics in Linguistics
A capstone course for Linguistics and Speech Sciences majors, normally taken after three years of study.  Individual sections will differ substantially; see online Course List for detailed descriptions and prerequisites. May be repeated for credit when content is different.
LING 451 - Acquisition of Phonology
Development of the phonological system in typical first language acquisition from the perspective of diverse linguistic topics. Phonetic transcription of child speech.
LING 452 - Acquisition of Syntax
Central issues in the first language acquisition of syntax, including early lexical and semantic development, acquisition of morphology, and syntactic development (e.g., word order, questions).
Your future
Career opportunities vary widely across a range of fields including interpretation or translation, language teaching, communications, publishing, government, speech recognition, artificial intelligence, codes and code breaking, and others.
There are many career paths that can combine your academics, skills, and experience with your different interests, including:
Art or Music therapist
Artificial intelligence designer
Audiologist
Communications manager
Communications policy researcher
Editor
English as a Second Language teacher
Foreign service officer
Public relations specialist
Reading clinician
Careers with Linguistics
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life on Snapchat
Read admissions blog post
Meet Professor Schreyer, a linguist and anthropologist who helped develop Superman's mother tongue
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC