Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/management/

Management
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Learn how management thinking can help solve today’s organizational, business, and societal challenges. This program will show you how to navigate our rapidly changing world using collaboration, teamwork, and critical thinking, as well as teaching you to apply those skills to a number of disciplines.
Why this program?
Collaborate with a partner organization to solve a challenge that they are currently facing
Participate in experiential learning through the co-op program, building relationships and finding meaningful paid work experience
Expand your degree with a minor in cultural studies, psychology, sociology, computer science, or economics
Study abroad with Go Global, an international exchange program that allows you to explore different cultures
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Faculty of Management
Degree:
Bachelor of Management
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The Bachelor of Management degree teaches management techniques that can be applied to many sectors. During the program, you’ll explore subjects such as sustainability, accounting, entrepreneurial technology, leading in complex environments, finance, negotiations, human resources, and marketing. You’ll also have the choice to focus those skills in a particular topic area, with the chance to minor in computer science, cultural studies, economics, psychology, or sociology.
The program offers a tight-knit and supportive learning environment, and helps you to pursue your interests and develop your community. When you graduate, you’ll be ready for employment in a variety of organizations from start-ups to ethical non-profits or private business. Some alumni go on to further studies such as course-based or research-based Master’s programs, or with courses that lead to professional designations such as Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA), Certified Human Resources Professional (CHRP), and Chartered Professional Accountants (CPA).
Experiential learning and research
The program has one required, hands-on project:
The
Capstone Service Learning and Consulting
course includes immersive, team-based work that explores connections among students’ disciplines and the challenges that are being faced in the off-campus community.
You’ll also have the option to explore research in the management field through a
directed studies course
, where you’ll do supervised research at the undergraduate level with a faculty member. As well, you’ll be part of the
Management Student Association
(MSA) on the Okanagan campus, which allows you to connect with other students and build your support system, and participate in
local, national, or international competitions
and conferences.
To broaden your experience, you can choose to take part in the
Co-op program
, where you’ll gain real-world experience in a job relevant to your interests while getting paid. If you’re hoping to go further afield, you can take part in
Go Global
and complete a semester abroad while collecting UBC credit for your studies.
Campus features
The
Faculty of Management
is accommodated in a new, $68-million state-of-the-art facility for teaching and research that incorporates high-tech teaching tools, training resources, and meeting spaces, and is the largest building on campus.
Send details
Why this program?
Collaborate with a partner organization to solve a challenge that they are currently facing
Participate in experiential learning through the co-op program, building relationships and finding meaningful paid work experience
Expand your degree with a minor in cultural studies, psychology, sociology, computer science, or economics
Study abroad with Go Global, an international exchange program that allows you to explore different cultures
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
MGMT 100 - Introduction to Business
Introduction to the Faculty of Management and traditional areas of business including accounting, economics, finance, marketing, organizational behaviour, operations, business policy, information systems and entrepreneurship. Identifies the steps needed to build and manage successful local, national, and international competitive businesses and organizations. Introduces ethical and policy decisions faced by businesses, organizations and governments. Open to all students.
MGMT 110 - Introduction to Management Thought and Social Responsibility
Introduces management thought in business and organizations. Utilizes critical thinking in socially and ethically responsible decisions at a corporate and personal level. Includes managing responsibly through people, mass production, ethical and socially-responsible practices. Covers start-ups, entrepreneurs, family business, non-profit/for-profit organizations and governments in global regions. Open to all students.
MGMT 201 - Introduction to Financial Accounting
Construction and interpretation of financial statements.
MGMT 220 - Introduction to Marketing
Concepts, analyses, and activities that comprise marketing management; practice with assessing and solving marketing problems.
MGMT 230 - Introduction to Organizational Behaviour
Theories and concepts. Research, analytic, and behavioural skills aimed at understanding and managing the behaviour of individuals and groups in organizations.
MGMT 250 - Introduction to Information Technology Management
IT managerial issues and their impact on small and medium enterprises and their people.
MGMT 290 - Industry Analysis Project
Applications of management concepts to the study of the nature and dynamics of an industry. Credit will not be granted for both MGMT 290 and MGMT 390.
MGMT 310 - Introduction to Finance
Framework development for analyzing a firm's investment and financing decisions and a foundation in the basic concepts underlying modern corporate finance.
MGMT 355 - Operations Management
Introduction to the strategic and tactical decisions of operations management as it applies to both service and manufacturing sectors. Topics include process and technology choice, process flow, layout of facilities, capacity and resource planning, inventory control, lean systems, quality management, and quality control.
MGMT 360 - Business Conditions Analysis
Basic tools and concepts of macroeconomics; review of the "non-market" factors that influence the effective performance of organizations.
MGMT 380 - Sustainability and Business
Sustainable development issues and current thinking regarding sustainability and its implications for businesses and their managers.
MGMT 410 - Leadership in Complex Environments
Examinations of theoretical and practical approaches to leadership and conflict resolution. Topics covered include distinguishing between authority and leadership, technical problems and adaptive challenges, power and progress, diagnostic frameworks for assessment and strategies, and tactics of intervention to mobilize progress. Also explored is the nature of conflict, its role in human social systems, and ways to address its negative impacts and harness its positive possibilities.
MGMT 450 - Entrepreneurship and the Smaller Firm
Exposure to the issues and challenges associated with starting a new entrepreneurial business. Students gain an appreciation of the challenges associated with creating a new venture.
MGMT 470 - Global Food Systems: Society, Ecology, Sustainability
Evaluating food system sustainability issues, including management and technology alternatives, through the lenses of (1) systems-analytic (i.e. life cycle) thinking and tools; and (2) sustainable scale (relative to ecological carrying capacity), distributive justice, and efficient allocation.
MGMT 490 - Capstone Service Learning and Consulting
Culminating experience for a management education. Includes team-based work on a community service project, consulting project, or some other form of experiential or immersion-based learning effort. Explores connections among students' disciplines and between their educational experience and issues in the off-campus community.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Aerial view of UBC's Okanagan campus
Life at UBC's Okanagan campus
UBC's Okanagan campus is renowned for its research opportunities and access to professors. On a tight-knit campus like the Okanagan’s, you’ll be able to work closely with award-winning faculty and make meaningful connections with your peers. Take part in real-world management challenges, and learn how to use your leadership skills to empower organizational change.
Find out more
Your future
Establish a
solid foundation in management
and earn a UBC degree respected by employers around the globe. Start your own company, build a career in government, join a non-profit organization, or use your management skills to build a career path in your areas of expertise.
UBC stories
"The ability to be in a smaller tight-knit community while having access to the resources of a larger intuition is a large reason as to why I chose the Okanagan campus. I love being a big fish in a small pond and getting to pursue different opportunities in a competitive yet supportive environment has allowed me to put myself out there, learn from my mistakes, and more importantly try again! I also love that I’m not just a number, my faculty and professors know me by name and we’re able to have meaningful conversations about their research, shared interests, and their journey of getting to where they are today."
Abby N., Bachelor of Management
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Management
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Social Studies
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Felipe, and find out why he chose to pursue Management at UBC
Read full story
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC