Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/manufacturing-engineering-vancouver/

Manufacturing Engineering
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Learn how to design, operate, and optimize advanced manufacturing environments in UBC's Manufacturing Engineering program. In fourth year, you'll have the chance to specialize in production management on the Okanagan campus or technical manufacturing on the Vancouver campus.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Why this program?
Be part of the first Manufacturing Engineering program of its kind in BC
Specialize in production management on the Okanagan campus or technical manufacturing on the Vancouver campus
Gain hands-on experience through dedicated manufacturing labs in this multidisciplinary engineering degree
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Applied Science (Engineering)
Degree:
Bachelor of Applied Science (Engineering)
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Manufacturing engineers work to design, apply, and co-ordinate manufacturing system materials and processes. Their goal is to achieve efficient, cost-effective, and high-quality production in a safe and environmentally responsible manner. Manufacturing engineers focus on all aspects of the production of industrial and commercial products, including machinery, electronics, home appliances, oil and gas products, food and beverages, clothing and textiles, and environmental and recycled products.
As a student in the Manufacturing Engineering program, you’ll take:
Courses in mechanical engineering, materials engineering, and computer engineering
Specifically designed manufacturing engineering courses, including manufacturing processes, production systems management, and industrial automation
You’ll also learn about product management, newly emerging practices in digital modelling, virtual machining, additive manufacturing, and composites. Through your studies, you’ll gain experience designing, operating, optimizing, and managing advanced manufacturing environments.
Experiential learning and research
As a Manufacturing Engineering student, you’ll have many opportunities to shape your learning experience:
Choose from among the technical electives on offer each year to learn more about the research interests of your professors.
Pursue your research interests an an undergraduate student by applying for research funding (e.g., NSERC, CIHR).
Participate in
Engineering Co-op
for up to 20 months of paid engineering work experience and a competitive advantage when seeking employment after you graduate.
Broaden your academic and cultural experience by spending a semester abroad through the
Coordinated International Experience
program – a program that’s unique to the Faculty of Applied Science.
Send details
Why this program?
Be part of the first Manufacturing Engineering program of its kind in BC
Specialize in production management on the Okanagan campus or technical manufacturing on the Vancouver campus
Gain hands-on experience through dedicated manufacturing labs in this multidisciplinary engineering degree
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
APSC 100 - Introduction to Engineering I
An introduction to the engineering profession including: roles and responsibilities of the engineer, the engineering disciplines, sustainability, an introduction to the engineering design process, introduction and application of the relevant foundational scientific principles, prototyping, engineering graphics, technical communication, and engineering ethics.
PHYS 157 - Introductory Physics for Engineers I
Heat, thermodynamics, oscillations, waves, and sound.
APSC 160 - Introduction to Computation in Engineering Design
Analysis and simulation, laboratory data acquisition and processing, measurement interfaces, engineering tools, computer systems organization, programming languages. Credit will only be given for one of: APSC 160, CPSC 301, or EOSC 211.
MATH 101 - Integral Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
The definite integral, integration techniques, applications, modelling, infinite series.
MANU 201 - Technical Communication
Written and oral communication in business correspondence, engineering design methods, report preparation and oral presentations of technical material. Restricted to students in second year of the Manufacturing Engineering Program.
MANU 230 - Manufacturing Engineering Laboratory
Theory, operational constraints, and problem solving in traditional manufacturing processes. Casting, heat treatment, bulk deformation (i.e. rolling, extrusion, drawing), machining, joining, and shaping of composites. Experiments in process and product characterization.
MANU 270 - Production Systems Management I
Impact of operations in increasing productivity and reducing waste.
CPEN 223 - Software Design for Engineers
Introduction to robust software design: static typing, procedural specifications, unit testing, black-box & white-box tests, user- defined data types (representations, invariants, abstraction functions), data abstractions, communicating design (e.g., UML).
MECH 260 - Introduction to Mechanics of Materials
Statically determinate frames and trusses; normal and shear stresses and strains; shear force and bending moment diagrams; theory of beam bending, torsion of circular rods; transformation of stress and strain in two and three dimensions, Mohr's circle; yield and ultimate failure criteria.
MANU 380 - Manufacturing Processes I
Correlation between material properties and processibility for practical engineering manufacturing routes.  Calculations and design. Application of heat/mass/fluid transport, mechanics and thermodynamics to manufacturing processes.
MECH 368 - Engineering Measurements and Instrumentation
Industrial measurement needs including: architecture of electronic instrumentation systems; electrical representation of physical quantities; sensors and actuators; analog signal processing using linear and non-linear circuits; computer based readout including programming for user-interface and data acquisition.
MTRL 455 - Economic Aspects of Materials Engineering
Time value of money, cash flows, capital and operating cost estimation, financial decision making and relevant case studies.
CPEN 333 - System Software Engineering
Operating systems principles, real-time systems, principles of concurrent and multi-threaded programming, information structures, introduction to object oriented analysis, design, and modelling using UML, testing of software systems.
MANU 430 - Manufacturing Design Capstone Project
Project-based, multi-step, multi-part Capstone design project involving manufacturing engineering design methods, problem solving.
MECH 462 - Finite Element Analysis
Theory and element selection. Virtual work and weighted residual formulation. Linear elastic analysis. Heat transfer analysis. Isoparametic elements. Development of computer programs for simple problems. Utilization of existing computer packages. Application to mechanical engineering problems.
MANU 485 - Metal Cutting and Machine Tool Vibrations
Metal cutting and grinding mechanics; prediction of force-torque-power in turning, drilling, milling and grinding operations. Machine tool vibrations, forced and self-excited vibrations in machining, experimental modal testing of machine tools, chatter, and stability.
MECH 467 - Computer Control of Mechatronics Systems
Block diagrams and transfer functions, continuous and discrete domain transformations, feedback control system characteristics, control design in both continuous and discrete domain, absolute and relative stability, laboratory examples of Mechatronic systems design. Credit cannot be obtained for both MECH 466 and MECH 467.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
View larger image
ubcv-manufacturing-engineering
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
As a Manufacturing Engineering student, you will have most of your classes, teaching laboratories, capstone projects, and studio sessions in the Faculty of Applied Sciences buildings.
Find out more
Your future
As a manufacturing engineer, you may be employed by:
Government and regulatory agencies
Manufacturing and processing companies
Consulting firms
Organizations in the financial and healthcare industries
Industrial and government research facilities
In industry, manufacturing engineers can work in areas such as rubber, plastics and chemical manufacturing, manufactured mineral products, computer and electronics manufacturing, and transportation manufacturing.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Applied Science (Engineering)
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
IB Chemistry
IB Physics
Academically strong candidates missing either IB Chemistry or IB Physics may be evaluated on a case-by-case basis
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Hívio, an Engineering student who came to UBC from Brazil
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC