Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-land-water-systems

Master of Land and Water Systems
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Land and Water Systems (MLWS)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
Land and water are essential resources required to sustain human needs, including food security, maintenance of environmental goods and services, and all forms of useable energy. Managing land and water as an integrated system provides a framework to aid society to achieve the goals of an improved quality of life, a healthy environment and human equity in an era of global climate change and urban expansion.
The goal of the innovative Master of Land and Water Systems program is to offer a professional degree that will serve both practicing resource managers, and recent graduates from cognate undergraduate academic programs, the necessary credentials to address the emerging concerns of land and water resources conservation and management.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The 12-month, professional Master of Land and Water Systems program provides students an opportunity to obtain science-based skills, training and knowledge in the area of Land and Water Systems to address the emerging environmental issues of food security, maintenance of ecological services, restoration of degraded lands, climate change adaptation, and resource conservation.
Program Structure
The MLWS degree includes 33 credits of coursework, consisting of 21 credits of required courses plus 12 credits of electives. Each student will be required to register for LWS 548 (6 credits) and complete a "Major Project".
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Specialization
Land and Water Systems
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $22,227.70 | International: $44,116.90
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 90
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Course Requirements
Prerequisites: Students must hold a recognized baccalaureate degree (minimum) in science, applied natural science (agriculture/forestry) or engineering. For more information, visit Admission Requirements. The MLWS degree includes 33 credits of coursework consisting of 21 credits of required courses plus 12 credits of  electives. Of the 33 credits, 6 credits may be at the 300 – 400 level, and 27 credits must be at the 500 – level or higher.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
10 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
10 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
15 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
10 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
10 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
15 January 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Course-based programs do not have a thesis component. While they may assign academic advisors to students, they do
not
require applicants to reach out to individual professors / faculty members to seek commitment as their thesis supervisor. Please do not contact faculty members for the purposes of thesis supervision if you are applying to this program.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Program Components
The Major Project may be conducted off-campus and will be co-supervised by a recognized professional (for example, a Professional Agrologist, Biologist, Forester, Geoscientist, etc.), and a UBC Faculty member.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$7,409.23
$14,705.64
Program Fee
$22,227.69
$44,116.92
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$1500.00
$1500.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
There is demand in Canada and around the world for professionals who can understand and analyze the relationships between the resource sectors and the realities of human population growth, increased demand on land and water systems and the added uncertainty brought by climate change. This demand has been rising due to the prevalence and complexity of issues related to land degradation, food and water security, as well as the global concern of sustaining ecological biodiversity and services. Frustrations have been expressed by narrowly trained professionals in their abilities to address the dynamics of systems management issues and to acquire and apply the necessary scientific skills in a more integrated and holistic manner. Governments and private industry, both in developed and developing countries, need professionals with resource management skills and knowledge of institutions, policies and ecological constraints of the resource sectors. The MLWS degree is designed to meet the needs of resource practitioners in these sectors.
Potential Career Paths include:
Agricultural Representatives, Consultants and Specialists
Environmental Consultants for Natural Resource Development; Government
Utilities Managers (Director of water pollution control, Director, water supply)
Non-Government Organizations
Alumni on Success
Naomi Robert
Job Title
Research Associate
Employer
Institute for Sustainable Food Systems at Kwantlen Polytechnic University
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Land and Water Systems (MLWS). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
68
54
191
152
149
Offers
35
32
36
35
33
New Registrations
17
16
25
18
20
Total Enrolment
18
16
25
21
21
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
98%
based on 47 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 79 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.02 years and the maximum time is 2.05 years with an average of
1.03 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Applied Animal Biology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Food Science (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Human Nutrition (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Integrated Studies in Land and Food Systems (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Plant Science (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Soil Science (PhD)
Graduate Certificate in Aquaculture (GCAQUA)
Master of Food and Resource Economics (MFRE)
Master of Food Science (MFS)
Master of Science in Applied Animal Biology (MSc)
Master of Science in Food Science (MSc)
Master of Science in Human Nutrition (MSc)
Master of Science in Integrated Studies in Land and Food Systems (MSc)
Master of Science in Plant Science (MSc)
Master of Science in Soil Science (MSc)
Further Information
Specialization
Land and Water Systems
Land and Water Systems provides graduates with science-based skills, training and knowledge in natural resources and environmental sciences and effective communication alternatives. The program addresses the emerging environmental issues of food security, maintenance of ecological services, restoration of degraded lands, climate change adaptation and resource conservation. Students assess the intersection of resource activities, which includes Urbanization, Mining, Agriculture and Forestry through a land and water lens on a local and global scale.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/soil-science
Program Website
https://mlws.landfood.ubc.ca/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Academic Unit
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Program Identifier
VGMMLW
Classification
Natural environment sciences
Natural resource management
Environmental engineering
Sustainable agricultural development
Food safety
Environment and natural resources economics
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
10 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
10 January 2025
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubcMLWS/
https://twitter.com/ubcMLWS/
https://twitter.com/ubcMLWS/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver