Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-science-oceans-fisheries

Master of Science in Oceans and Fisheries (MSc)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Science in Oceans and Fisheries (MSc)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Program is designed to train marine and freshwater scientists to undertake basic and applied research that will help foster healthy marine and freshwater ecosystems and sustainable resource use. Students broaden their interdisciplinary expertise and acquire professional experience in areas including fisheries science, aquatic ecology, environmental physiology, natural resource economics, marine governance, and climate change.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The Program is the only M.Sc. program in BC, indeed in Canada, that offers both 18-credit thesis and 12-credit thesis streams, and is interdisciplinary in providing training in both ocean and freshwater fisheries science.
Also available is the
Indigenous Community-Based Researcher Pathway
which enables students to complete their program requirements at a distance (in whole or part) so they may reside in their Indigenous community context(s) during their studies.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Science
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Thesis required
Academic Unit
Institute for the Oceans and Fisheries
Specialization
Oceans and Fisheries
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
Please consult this webpage for full details on how to apply:
https://oceans.ubc.ca/graduate-program/prospective-students/admissions/
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.5
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
BA or BSc is required with minimum grade averages set by UBC Gradaute and Postdoctoral Studies.
Document Requirements
Three letters of reference. Ideally, the referees should be faculty members who have supervised your studies and/or research directly
Curriculum Vitae
Statement of Intent outlining your research experience, proposed research project (or ideas), and explaining your interest in working with the particular faculty member(s)
Scanned copies of up-to-date unofficial transcripts of marks from all post-secondary institutions attended. Mailed official transcripts required to be registered in courses.
English Language Proficiency Exam scores (if required)
Other Requirements
Firm commitment from a faculty member to fund and act as supervisor is required in order to be considered.
*Students will NOT be admitted to the OCF graduate program unless a faculty member has agreed to accept the student into their laboratory group / research unit.
Meet minimum grade averages set by Graduate & Postdoctoral Studies: B+ range or 76%; at least 12 credits of third or fourth year courses in the A grade range (80% or higher).
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
30 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
30 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
30 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
30 January 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Oceans and Fisheries (MSc)
All applicants need firm commitment from a supervisor prior to applying.
Please email potential supervisors from our faculty list here:
https://oceans.ubc.ca/people/
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Highlights
The impacts of the Institute’s research on aquatic issues extend far beyond our academic home at UBC. Our research has influenced public policy concerning the management of fisheries, the establishment of marine protected areas, industrial fishing practices, and the economic structure of fisheries. We also undertake a wide variety of educational and public outreach initiatives, in Canada and beyond.
Visit our
research impacts
page to read about topics and initiatives such as:
iSeahorse
Toward Sustainable Chinese Medicine
UBC’s Blue Whale Project
Research Focus
Our
research themes
are:
Ecology and Biology:
From viruses and microbes to phyto-plankton and zooplankton. From seahorses to whales. From freshwater to the high seas. Our researchers cover the world examining species ecology, animal behaviour and movement, and their interactions with humans, as indicators of ecosystem change.
Ecosystem Modelling:
Ecosystem modelling approaches and tools, such as Ecopath with Ecosim (EwE), decision-support software tools, manage-ment strategy evaluations, dynamic population models and Bayesian statistical methods, species distribution models and habitat modelling, and statistical analyses of fisheries and fisheries ecosystems help us understand the past, present and future of our shared marine resources.
Human, Social and Economic Dimensions:
Our oceans and freshwater systems are a powerful part of our human conscious-ness. We know that human impacts have, for the most part been destructive; how do we change that so that the marine ecosystems that feed us, employ us, and support us can be sustained in an equitable, restorative, and resilient way.
Sustainability and Policy:
We only have one Earth: how can we sustain it? Analyzing and predicting climate change impacts, advancing marine conservation, offering mitigation and adaptation solutions, conducting collaborative interdisciplinary research and resource management, and seeking practical solutions in local, regional, and global policy forums.
Program Components
Two choices:
12-credit thesis
For a 12-credit Master’s thesis (FISH 549A), it is expected that a minimum of one chapter of novel research is completed that offers an original contribution. The chapter of novel research must:
address at least one overarching thesis research question,
document well-designed experiments, surveys, or a rigorous data compilation from previous experiments or surveys, and
document analyses of the data obtained within the thesis research that rigorously address the focal thesis research question.
The completed chapter of novel research should also “contain [an] original contribution”.
Students must also complete 18 credits of coursework, including two required courses:
FISH 500 (3)
FISH 520 (6)
Nine (9) additional credits must be taken from three of the six categories listed below.
Ocean and Fisheries Assessment and Scientific Methods, e.g., EOSC 478, FISH 504, FISH 505, FISH 506H, FISH 509, FISH 510, EOSC 573, EOSC 578, EOSC 510.
Ecological, Biological, Economic & Social Studies, e.g., FISH 501, FISH 502, FISH 506G, FISH 508, EOSC 575, RES 510.
Governance & Policy, e.g., FISH 503, FISH 507, RES 586, FISH 520 (if the student is in the 18 credit thesis stream (see above).
Aboriginal Ocean and Fisheries Management, e.g., FISH 506F.
Conservation Science, e.g., BIOL 416, RES 506
Science Communication, e.g., ANTH 478, FRST 544, FRST 545
18-credit thesis
For a 18-credit Master’s thesis (FISH 549B), it is expected that at least two chapters of novel research, each focusing on separate but closely related thesis research questions, which also yield “original contributions“.  Students completing a 18-credit thesis must complete 12 credits of coursework, including one required course:
FISH 500 (3)
Nine (9) additional credits must be taken from three of the six categories listed below.
Categories of elective courses
Ocean and Fisheries Assessment and Scientific Methods, e.g., EOSC 478, EOSC 420, FISH 504, FISH 505, FISH 506H, FISH 506R, FISH 509, FISH 510, EOSC 573, EOSC 578, EOSC 510.
Ecological, Biological, Economic & Social Studies, e.g., FISH 501, FISH 506G, FISH 508, EOSC 575, RES 510, FISH 520
Governance & Policy, e.g., FISH 503, FISH 506I, FISH 507, RES 586, FISH 520
Aboriginal Ocean and Fisheries Management, e.g., FISH 506F, FISH 506I
Conservation Science, e.g., BIOL 416, FISH 506I, RES 506, FISH 520, RES 509/ZOOL 509
Science Communication, e.g., ANTH 478, FRST 544, FRST 545.
Research Facilities
The IOF is housed in the Aquatic Ecosystems Research Laboratory (AERL), an $8.9-million facility offering 55,000 square feet for research, collaboration and teaching. A four-storey open atrium connects interdisciplinary research groups throughout the building. Adjacent to the atrium, social spaces promote a sense of community and encourage interaction between students, faculty and staff. Large public rooms on the ground floor provide a welcoming environment for academic and social events. The upper floors house offices, digital laboratories and a variety of meeting spaces, such as the Hakai Node.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
The Institute for the Oceans and Fisheries (IOF) has a funding policy that guarantees a minimum level of support to all Ocean and Fisheries (OCF) students. The minimum level of support is intended to assist with various aspects of student life including the cost of living and tuition, and may change yearly to account for changes in these costs, see below for the exact amount.
Please consult this page for detailed funding information:
https://oceans.ubc.ca/graduate-program/funding/
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
The Program produces uniquely trained highly qualified personnel with the research capacity and knowledge translation skills necessary for influential careers in academia, industry, government, consulting, and civil society, among others. The graduate students gain exposure to potential future careers and develop professional connections through cooperation and continual interaction with a diverse partner group in industry (e.g., fishermen’s organizations such as the United Fishermen and Allied Workers Union), consulting (e.g., LGL Limited), government (e.g., Fisheries and Oceans Canada (DFO), B.C. Ministry of the Environment), and non-governmental organizations (e.g., Suzuki Foundation, Hakai Institute), and through public engagement.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Science in Oceans and Fisheries (MSc). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
25
17
29
31
6
Offers
8
5
11
13
4
New Registrations
7
5
11
9
3
Total Enrolment
26
31
26
15
7
Completion Rates & Times
Based on 19 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.02 years and the maximum time is 4.1 years with an average of
2.49 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Oceans and Fisheries (MSc)
All applicants need firm commitment from a supervisor prior to applying.
Please email potential supervisors from our faculty list here:
https://oceans.ubc.ca/people/
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Auger-Methe, Marie
(Fisheries sciences; Statistics; Zoology; Animal movement; Polar ecology; Statistical Ecology)
Cheung, Wai Lung
(Global change biology; Ecological impacts of climate change; climate change; Marine Ecosystems; sustainability; biodiversity; Interdisciplinary)
Christensen, Villy
(Fisheries management; Global change biology; Ecosystem function)
Donner, Simon
(Atmospheric sciences; Oceanography; Other media and communication; Climate Science; climate change impacts; Climate policy; Coastal Ecosystems; Marine Environment; Climate modelling and prediction; Science communication; Net-zero emissions; Coral reefs)
Harley, Christopher
(Fisheries sciences; Zoology; climate change; community ecology; Ecology and Quality of the Environment; marine algae; marine invertebrates)
Hunt, Brian
(Marine ecology (including marine ichthyology); Biological oceanography; Biodiversity; Ecosystem function; Ecological impacts of climate change; Community ecology (except invasive species ecology); marine food webs; ecosystem oceanography; plankton dynamics; open ocean; Coastal Ecosystems; climate change impacts on the ocean; salmon ecology; food web nutrition; microplastics; stable isotopes; forage fish; zooplankton; Urban oceans; Thiamine defficiency; Stormwater)
McAllister, Murdoch
(Statistical methods for fisheries risk assessment, estimation, decision analysis and management strategy evaluation)
Pakhomov, Yevhenii
(Feeding ecophysiology of aquatic invertebrates and fishes, Antarctic ecology, Antarctic krill biology, Tunicate biology, Fishery ecology, Stable isotope ecology)
Pauly, Daniel
(World fisheries; Marine life; Global catch; Management of fisheries; Fish growth and ecophysiology)
Reid, Andrea
(Fisheries sciences; Culturally significant fish and fisheries)
Rosen, David
(Animal physiology; Physiology, behaviour, and ecology of marine mammals;; Bioenergetics; Nutrition; Conservation physiology)
Sumaila, Ussif Rashid
(Bioeconomics, marine ecosystem valuation and the analysis of global issues such as fisheries subsidies, IUU (illegal, unreported and unregulated) fishing and the economics of high and deep seas fisheries)
Suttle, Curtis
(Bioinformatics; Fisheries sciences; Immunology; Microbiology; Oceanography; Plant biology; Biological Oceanography; Environmental Virology; Marine Environment; Marine Microbiology; Microbial Diversity; Phage; Viral Discovery; Viruses)
Trites, Andrew
(marine mammals, seals, sea lions, whales, dolphins, fisheries competition, population biology, ecology, Marine mamals research centre, biology of marine mammals, population dynamics, bioenergetics, fisheries)
Vincent, Amanda
(Ecological applications, n.e.c.; Marine ecology (including marine ichthyology); Biodiversity; Natural environment sustainability studies; Natural resource management; Wildlife and habitat management)
Sample Thesis Submissions
From ethics to genetics in aquatic ecology : process is key
Spatial footprint and climate risk in fishmeal and fish oil production
From nature to data : insights into Antarctic fur seal navigation
Distribution, habitat associations, and threats to Patagonian seahorses in an Argentine protected area
Physiological and behavioural performance metrics of Athabasca rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) across varying thermal regimes in the Athabasca river watershed
Modelling the impact of human development and water quality on hypoxia
The potential and limitations of community science in the marine environment, with seahorses as a case study
Estimating the inland fisheries catch (1950-2019) of data-sparse countries and territories, with emphasis on Africa
Evaluation of habitat features responsible for variations in the abundance of endangered Nooksack dace (Rhinichthys cataractae sp. cataractae) and the role of habitat restoration in their recovery
Projecting catch potential for British Columbia First Nations under climate change and fisheries management scenarios
The e-commerce trade of seahorses
Estimating the relative energetic cost of foraging in Pacific Coast Feeding Group grey whales from biologging data
Restoration of traditional marine food systems as climate adaptation strategy for coastal First Nations
Vulnerability assessment for juvenile sockeye salmon using biological indicators
The Galápagos penguin as the "canary in the coal mine" for microplastics research in the Galápagos Marine Reserve & plastic pollution perceptions in Ecuadorian mangrove communities
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Oceans and Fisheries (PhD)
Further Information
Specialization
Oceans and Fisheries
Within Oceans and Fisheries marine and freshwater scientists train to undertake basic and applied research that will help foster healthy marine and freshwater ecosystems and sustainable resource use. Students will deepen and broaden their interdisciplinary expertise by acquiring in-depth training in fisheries science, aquatic ecology, environmental physiology, natural resource economics, marine governance, and climate change.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/oceans-and-fisheries
Program Website
https://oceans.ubc.ca/graduate-program/prospective-students/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Science
Academic Unit
Institute for the Oceans and Fisheries
Program Identifier
VGMMSC-OCF
Classification
Biological oceanography
Aquatic ecosystem studies and stock assessment
Nearshore processes and coastal oceanography
Estuarine oceanography
Animal physiology, metabolism
Fisheries management
Fish physiology and genetics
Aquaculture
Fisheries sciences, n.e.c.
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
15 January 2025
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubcoceans/
https://www.linkedin.com/school/ubcoceans/
https://twitter.com/UBCoceans/
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCtUmSCUDE3ahzOkl4ET_ofA/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver