Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-engineering-mining-engineering

Master of Engineering in Mining Engineering (MEng)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Engineering in Mining Engineering (MEng)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
The Master of Engineering is not administered by the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies. Please check the
UBC Engineering
website for admission requirements, deadlines and application procedure.
Overview
Join the academic community of one of the world’s leading mining schools. We are one of a few mining schools in Canada with facilities and expertise in Mining, Mineral Processing, Rock Mechanics, Social License, Mine Economics and Environmental Sustainability. Enroll in a Master of Engineering degree at a top ranked university and in one of the most beautiful and liveable cities in the world.
Our cohort-based, professional degree is a course-based masters which allows one to specialize in one of the following areas:
Mining Geotechnics,
Mineral Processing,
Mine Economics,
Mine Waste Management
Mining Sustainability and the Environment.
The program attracts mining professionals from all corners of the world and creates a diverse network of mining expertise. Students benefit from the academic content as well as the international professional experience each student brings to the program.  Students also have the opportunity to enhance their experience with an 4-8 month paid work term.
Take advantage of our institute’s strong sense of community and close industrial support.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Specially Tailored Orientation Program
Students have a specially tailored orientation program to provide a wide-ranging overview and introduction to Canada’s mining industry, UBC and Vancouver.
In July, prior to arrival, students start the coop orientation. Upon arrival in early August, students have an orientation session at the Institute, a tour of the UBC campus, and a welcome lunch. Over the next few weeks, students also take several short courses with NBK Institute faculty members, in addition to meeting with safety representatives and UBC’s Engineering Co-op Office. Students will tour select attractions in Vancouver and visit the head offices of Vancouver-based mining companies. After learning about mine closure and acid rock drainage, students visit the BC Museum of Mining and EPCOR Britannia Mine Water Treatment Plant Discovery Centre. At the end of the orientation period, students undertake an extensive field trip to several major BC mining operations, followed by an industry networking night.
In early September, students are required to make a presentation and produce a report on a mine or mining company to demonstrate a solid understanding of basic mining principles. Three graduate level credits are given for the academic portion of the orientation.
From September until April, MEng students participate in academic conferences, industrial lunches and dinners and field trips. During the reading week in Term 2, MEng students undertake a major field trip to more distant Canadian mines.
Option to participate in a Paid Coop Internship
Students will have the chance to develop a well-rounded educational experience by applying classroom learning to relevant engineering work environments. Students are coached on how to refine existing strengths and develop new professional skills while developing a network of professional contacts. Students experience professional development and personal growth through the program.
Program Structure
The Master of Engineering in Mining Engineering (M.Eng.) is an intensive study program designed for professionals and engineering graduates eager to upgrade their skills in order to build a solid base for a career in the global mining industry. It includes at least 30 credits of course work with the option to complete a coop work term. The program takes up to 2 years to complete.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Applied Science
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Norman B. Keevil Institute of Mining Engineering
Specialization
Mining Engineering
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $6,704.13 | International: $25,109.30
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$2,234.71
$8,369.77
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$6,704.13
$25,109.31
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$1000.00
$1000.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Program Funding Packages
MENG Students can apply for Teaching Assistantships and Research Assistantships.  Most MENG students apply for the Engineering Coop Program. MENG students who are successful in securing an Engineering coop program internship are paid monthly salaries ranging from $3000 to $7000 per month.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Engineering in Mining Engineering (MEng). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
151
85
66
59
41
Offers
46
32
40
36
20
New Registrations
20
22
31
24
17
Total Enrolment
53
65
60
47
39
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
95%
based on 91 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 83 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 0.68 years and the maximum time is 2.39 years with an average of
1.76 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Mining Engineering (PhD)
Master of Applied Science in Mining Engineering (MASc)
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Master of Engineering (MEng)
Further Information
Specialization
Mining Engineering
Mining Engineering offers opportunity for study in the fields of mining and mineral processing, including mine environment and coal preparation. Areas of research interest are:
Mining: Mine economics and valuation, mine design, drilling and blasting methods, rock mechanics and slope stability, optimization and simulation of mining operations, advanced mining methods, mine services (particularly mine ventilation), and climatic control.
Mineral processing: Unit operations, comminution, process modelling and optimization, expert systems, instrumentation and computer control. Flotation, surface chemistry, fines recovery, coal recovery, treatment of fine and oxidized coal, and precious metals recovery.
Mining and Environment: Acid rock drainage, environmental protection, effluent control and treatment. Social and legal aspects of sustainable mining practices, small-scale mining in developing countries.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-applied-science/master-engineering
Program Website
https://mining.ubc.ca/academic-program/world-class-graduate-programs-in-mining-engineering/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Applied Science
Academic Unit
Norman B. Keevil Institute of Mining Engineering
Program Identifier
VGMMEN-QZ
Classification
Mining engineering
Mining engineering
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 February 2025
International Applicant Deadline
01 February 2025
September 2026 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2025
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 February 2026
International Applicant Deadline
01 February 2026
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.linkedin.com/school/nbkubc/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Considering Vancouver as your next home?
This city won’t disappoint. It has it all: sea, parks, mountains, beaches and all four seasons, including beautiful summers and mild, wet winters with snow.
Learn more about life in Vancouver