Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-education-school-applied-child-psychology

Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Education in School and Applied Child Psychology (MEd)
Master of Education in School and Applied Child Psychology (MEd)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The School and Applied Child Psychology program prepares graduate students to become psychologists who work in schools, academic, research, community and private practice settings. The primary goal of the program is to develop professional psychologists whose research, training and practice activities increase the educational and psychological well-being of children and youth. The School and Applied Child Psychology program follows a scientist-practitioner model, with emphasis on the integration of theory, research and clinical skills. Training encompasses academic, social, behavioral, consultation, intervention and prevention domains, and students receive training in the integration of assessment and intervention and in relevant professional, legal and ethical issues.
NOTE: We will not be admitting students into the Master of Education in School and Applied Child Psychology (MEd)
for the 2025-2026 academic year. We will post further updates in Spring 2025 regarding future intakes.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Top Five Reasons to join the School and Applied Child Psychology program at UBC:
Productive faculty research. Our program has award-winning scholars, whose wide range of research interests influence policy and practice. Active research grants allow many opportunities for student involvement, employment, and independent research. And UBC is currently ranked one of the top 35 universities in the world!
Extensive practical experiences. From day one, you’ll be applying what you learn in our courses right in the K–12 classroom. At the masters level you will participate in two full-year practicum placements followed by a one-year paid internship. At the doctoral level you will have your pick of specialty placements in the field of education and mental health, a practicum focused on developing skills in supervision, and a full-year paid internship.
Outstanding career prospects. School Psychology is consistently listed as a “best career” by US News and World Report. There are many job openings across Canada and worldwide, with excellent salaries and benefits. School Psychology practitioners and professors are both currently in very high demand.
Supportive environment. We admit cohorts of students who progress through the program together. Students have close contact with program faculty members throughout their graduate training. You will also get support from your peers, the school psychology graduate student assistant, and an advanced student mentor provided to you upon admission. There are abundant social gatherings and yearly program retreats.
Location. Vancouver is a diverse cosmopolitan city with a vibrant downtown, mountains and beaches, unmatched outdoor opportunities and a mild climate. It is regularly ranked in the top five cities to live in the world.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Education
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Options
Academic Unit
Department of Educational & Counselling Psychology, and Special Education
Specialization
School and Applied Child Psychology
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $7,885.56 | International: $16,223.20
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
22
Speaking
25
Listening
25
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is required by all applicants.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
Bachelor's Degree from accredited institutions.
Course Requirements
In addition to the minimum admission requirements set by the Faculty of Graduate Studies (normally, a four-year bachelor’s degree with a B+ average in third and fourth year-level course work) in a relevant area of study, students are required to meet the following pre-requisite requirements: A minimum of 18 credits in Psychology, Educational Psychology, or Special Education and related disciplines including CNPS 362 or an equivalent undergraduate course in basic interviewing skills. Other than the courses in statistics, research methods any courses in these areas will meet the requirement. However, students are encouraged to have background or coursework in areas most relevant to School and Applied Psychology practice (child development, learning, exceptional students, classroom management, behaviour disorders, abnormal psychology, etc.). It is not necessary to have a degree in psychology or education to apply but coursework and background in these areas is beneficial. Upper division undergraduate course work in both statistics and research methodology with content similar to the UBC courses EPSE 481: Introduction to Research in Education and EPSE 482: Introduction to Statistics for Research in Education. Applicants should carefully consider if the specific content of their statistics and research methodology courses is similar to EPSE 481 and 482 because these courses include the background needed for courses in the M.Ed. programs. Note: Completing a data-based honours thesis meets the research methods prerequisite. Evidence of suitability for professional work with school-aged populations, including successful work experience with school-aged populations, school-based experience and/or teacher certification. Note that teaching certification is not required. In addition to required prerequisites listed above, applicants are also strongly encouraged to have prior coursework in measurement. Examples of such courses at UBC include: EPSE 421, 423, PSYC 303, PSYC 323
Other Requirements
Applicants for all SACP programs (M.Ed., M.A., and Ph.D.) are required to complete the GRE general test with minimum scores of 153 in verbal and 144 in quantitative. The psychology subject exam is optional and not required. Applicants for whom English is not their primary language should write the GRE but inform the admissions committee of this fact. If you are a graduate of the M.A. program in School and Applied Psychology program within the last 5 years, you do not need to retake the GRE for your Ph.D. application.
2) Meet Deadlines
Application open dates and deadlines for an upcoming intake have not yet been configured in the admissions system. Please check back later.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Course-based programs do not have a thesis component. While they may assign academic advisors to students, they do
not
require applicants to reach out to individual professors / faculty members to seek commitment as their thesis supervisor. Please do not contact faculty members for the purposes of thesis supervision if you are applying to this program.
Criminal Record Check
This program contains a practicum component for which a
criminal record check
is required.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Program Components
Program Requirements The program is a three-year program with two years of full time study on campus, and an internship in Year 3. The M.Ed. program in School and Applied Child Psychology at UBC is designed for students who plan to practice as school psychologists at the master’s level and who do not plan to pursue doctoral study. Required Coursework1 EPSE 507 (3) Applied Child and Adolescent Psychopathology EPSE 528 (3) Basic Principles of Measurement EPSE 531 (3) Data-Based Individualization of Academic Interventions for Learning Difficulties EPSE 550 (3) Professional, Ethical, and Legal Issues In School Psychology EPSE 551 (3) School Based Consultation EPSE 552 (3) Intervention and Mental Health Promotion in Schools Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) in Indigenous Education EPSE 554 (3) Practicum in Cognitive Assessment EPSE 555 (3) Academic and Social Emotional Assessment EPSE 576 (3) Assessment and Positive Behaviour Support in School and Community Settings EPSE 561 (6) Laboratory Practicum (School-Based Practicum) EPSE 589 (9) Masters Internship in School Psychology
Research Facilities
The Psychoeducational Research and Training Centre (PRTC) is a university-based setting for research and clinical training within the Faculty of Education. The PRTC supports graduate training in educational assessment and counselling, maintains an up-to-date Test Library of assessment instruments, provides service and leadership in the profession and community, and facilitates research in education.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$2,628.52
$5,407.74
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$7,885.56
$16,223.22
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$1,500.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Program Funding Packages
Though we are not able to guarantee funding for all Master's students at the time of acceptance, a wide array of funding options are available. Many students receive fellowships based on academic merit from provincial and federal agencies (e.g., SSHRC, CIHR, Ministry of Education). Other students work as Graduate Academic Assistants (GAAs) and Graduate Research Assistants (GRAs). In recent years, it has been our experience that any student who desires funding is able to find it through GAA and/or GRA positions.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
School Psychology is a great career. There are many openings in BC and throughout North America, and starting salaries are excellent. With a Master's degree in School and Applied Child Psychology, the most common job is as a School Psychologist working in a school district and job prospects are excellent. In addition to working in schools, individuals with a degree in School and Applied Child School Psychology with PhD work in a variety of settings, including univerisities as researches and/or teaching, mental health agencies, child development centres, children’s hospitals, and private practices. With a M.Ed. degree in School and Applied Child Psychology from UBC, you would be eligible to apply for certification with the BC Association of School Psychologists. With a PhD, you would be eligible for registration as a psychologist with the College of Psychologists of BC and most other provinces and states in North America.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Education in School and Applied Child Psychology (MEd). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
This program went through a name change in previous years that may have included curriculum changes. It was previously known as: Master of Education in School Psychology until 2021. Historical data on this page may include data collected under the previous name(s) of the program.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
0
0
85
0
18
Offers
0
0
9
0
8
New Registrations
0
0
6
0
6
Total Enrolment
6
6
11
5
6
Completion Rates & Times
Based on 6 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 0.33 years and the maximum time is 3.07 years with an average of
2.16 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in School and Applied Child Psychology (PhD)
Master of Arts in School and Applied Child Psychology (MA)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Counselling Psychology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Human Development, Learning, and Culture (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Measurement, Evaluation and Research Methodology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Special Education (PhD)
Graduate Certificate in Orientation and Mobility (GCOM)
Master of Arts in Counselling Psychology (MA)
Master of Arts in Human Development, Learning, and Culture (MA)
Master of Arts in Measurement, Evaluation and Research Methodology (MA)
Master of Arts in Special Education (MA)
Master of Education in Counselling Psychology (MEd)
Master of Education in Human Development, Learning, and Culture (MEd)
Master of Education in Measurement, Evaluation and Research Methodology (MEd)
Master of Education in Special Education (MEd)
Further Information
Specialization
School and Applied Child Psychology
School and Applied Child Psychology prepares students to become psychologists who work in a variety of settings, including: research, academic, school, community, and private settings. The primary goal of the program is to develop professional psychologists whose research, training, and practice activities increase the educational and psychological well-being of children and youth. The program follows a scientist-practitioner model, with emphasis on the integration of theory, research, and clinical skills. Training encompasses academic, social, emotional, behavioural, consultation, intervention, and prevention domains. Students receive training in the integration of assessment and intervention, and in relevant professional, legal, and ethical issues.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/school-and-applied-child-psychology
Program Website
https://ecps.educ.ubc.ca/sacp/graduate-programs/med-program/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Education
Academic Unit
Department of Educational & Counselling Psychology, and Special Education
Program Identifier
VGMMED-WB2
Classification
Developmental psychology
Educational psychology
Social  psychology
Positive psychology
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ECPSubc/
https://twitter.com/ECPS_ubc/
https://www.youtube.com/user/ECPSubc/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Experience the colours of Vancouver
Great academic programs, great location: the distinct seasons and mild climate are among the reasons why graduate students choose to study here -- from the autumn leaves to cherry blossoms, witness the many colours Vancouver has to offer.