Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-digital-media

Master of Digital Media
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Digital Media (MDM)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
The Master of Digital Media is not administered by the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies. Please check the
program website
for information about the application process.
Overview
The Master of Digital Media (MDM) is a 16-month (including 12-months of work integrated learning) professional graduate degree that emphasizes collaborative, project-based learning where you will get hands-on experience developing digital media products. Informed by industry mentors and diverse faculty with decades of experience, students graduate with in-demand skills that accelerates their careers.
The MDM program offers students a learning environment that fosters bold creativity and cross-disciplinary collaboration in a realistic industry-based work setting. The MDM empowers students to develop leadership, collaboration, and communications skills through multidisciplinary teamwork. Students come from around the globe, and from many different undergraduate and professional backgrounds, including art, design, natural and social sciences, business, computer science and engineering.
Industry projects and team-based learning are at the core of the MDM curriculum. In the second and third semesters, teams of three to six students work on industry-sponsored projects to develop prototypes or applications from concept to deliverable. Students get hands-on experience working with teammates who are from different backgrounds and disciplines, as well as valuable experience working with clients. Students must also secure a four-month internship, reflect and report back on how their MDM experience is applied in the real world. This is done in a supportive environment where students can get career support and insights from faculty and staff.
Who this is for:
You want to break into the creative technology industry
You want to compliment your skills with the soft skills that organizations need
You want to accelerate your journey to leadership positions
You want more real-world project experience to enhance your resume
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Develop leadership, collaboration, and communication skills through multidisciplinary teamwork.
Solve real-world clients' problems using innovative solutions.
Gain the soft skills necessary to thrive in the tech industry.
Grow professional connections and get access to career support.
Successful international graduates will be eligible to apply for a post-grad work permit.
Affordable, quality housing available in Vancouver’s Creative District.
The MDM was created through a unique partnership of four leading academic institutions: University of British Columbia, Simon Fraser University, Emily Carr University of Art + Design, and British Columbia Institute of. Through this partnership, a curriculum was developed that corresponds to industry needs and prepares students for high-level roles in new and expanding digital media markets.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Arts
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework only
Specialization
Digital Media
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Research Information
Program Components
An internship is a requirement of the MDM Program. Students must secure a 4-month internship related to their career objectives. The internship semester starts in the fall, following 3 semesters of course work. Students have the option to extend their internships to 8 months.
The MDM Program provides guidance and support for students to secure their own internships with digital media companies, non-profit organizations, or any business or organization needing an application of digital media technologies.
The program also supports venture internships for students to develop start-up ventures. In all cases, students gain industry experience and learn to use their skills and knowledge in developing real applications.
Research Facilities
The Master of Digital Media program is housed at the Centre for Digital Media on Great Northern Way Campus. In addition to the graduate program, there are industry studios on campus and industry and professional development events that happen year-round. Furnished studio apartments are located upstairs and are available to rent for MDM students.
Career Options
This 16-month program (12 months coursework + 4-month internship) is designed to prepare students for employment in the top jobs in digital media as producers, designers, managers, technical artists and entrepreneurs. Recent graduates have taken positions at Electronic Arts (EA), SAP, Truly Social Games and CanHealth International in roles such as Associate Experience Designer, Associate Technical Artist, Technical Game Designer, UX Research and Design, Project Manager and User Experience Designer.
Related Programs
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Master of Arts (MA), Digital Humanities
Professional Master of Design
Further Information
Specialization
Digital Media
Digital Media develops six core competencies: design process, self-awareness, time management, articulation, information literacy, and teamwork.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/digital-media
Program Website
https://thecdm.ca/program/mdm
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Arts
Academic Unit
Faculty of Arts
Classification
Communication technology and digital media studies
Film, television and digital media
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/CentreforDigitalMedia/
https://www.instagram.com/centredigimedia/
https://twitter.com/CentreDigiMedia/
https://www.youtube.com/user/gnwc/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Curious about UBC for grad school?
Our community of scholars is one of the world’s finest, committed to discovering and sharing knowledge, and to tackling the challenges that face our world.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC