Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-engineering-biomedical-engineering

Master of Engineering in Biomedical Engineering (MEng)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Engineering in Biomedical Engineering (MEng)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
The Master of Engineering is not administered by the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies. Please check the
UBC Engineering
website for admission requirements, deadlines and application procedure.
Overview
Biomedical Engineers apply their knowledge in engineering, biology, and medicine to healthcare and medical device industries. Biomedical Engineering is a distinct field that encompasses engineering disciplines, biology, life sciences, medicine, clinical applications, and the improvement of human health. Since 2006, our MEng program has been training students who wish to enhance their professional skills in biomedical engineering. Students engage in a combination of course work and internship or co-op work experience. The program emphasizes the clinical and industrial aspects of biomedical engineering and prepares students for careers in hospitals and private industry. Many students find employment as clinical engineers. Students wishing to pursue a PhD should apply to the Master of Applied Science (MASc) in Biomedical Engineering.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The Biomedical Engineering Program at UBC is a part of the School of Biomedical Engineering. This unique interdisciplinary structure provides students with unparalleled access to engineering experts across varied Biomedical Engineering research areas at UBC. It emphasizes a balance of biomedical engineering and life science study with a focus on clinical and industrial application. Our graduates have gone on to become industry leaders, especially in the medical device industry, and provide a network of professionals within the community.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Applied Science
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
School of Biomedical Engineering
Specialization
Biomedical Engineering
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $6,704.13 | International: $25,109.30
School
School of Biomedical Engineering
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Research Information
Research Highlights
UBC Biomedical Engineering researchers work in a wide range of areas. Our main research themes include Cellular and Molecular Engineering (including Regenerative Medicine, Synthetic Biology, and Imumune Engineering); Imaging and Computational Biology (including AI & Multiscale Imaging, Bioinformatics/Systems Biology, and Computational Modeling & Automation); Human Interfacing Devices (including Therapeutic Delivery Systems & Nanodevices, Bionics & Bio-Sensors, Biomaterials, and Biomechanics/Injury Prevention).
We are now building capacity to increase research opportunities in areas of global importance including molecular and cellular engineering and synthetic biology, genomics and nano-devices, immune-engineering and advanced biomaterials, regenerative medicine, artificial intelligence and simulation systems with biomedical application, visualization and imaging from nanomolecular to physiological scales.
Research Focus
UBC Biomedical Engineering researchers work in a wide range of areas. Our main research clusters (RC) include: Imaging, Modeling, Simulation, and Guided Interventions; BIOMEMs and Bio-Optics; Musculoskeletal Biomechanics, Injury, Disease, and Restorative Treatments; Rehabilitative and Assistive Technologies and Human-Environment Interactions; Physiological Modeling and Control; and Computational and Synthetic Biology.
Program Components
Students in the MEng program complete an internship or co-op in Biomedical Engineering in one of three formats: hospital internship, industry internship or co-op placement, or supervised research project.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$2,234.71
$8,369.77
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$6,704.13
$25,109.31
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$1000.00
$1000.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Program Funding Packages
The MEng program does not provide funding for students.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
The MEng program in Biomedical Engineering is designed to prepare students for employment in the public or private sector, or to pursue further studies. Recent graduates have gone on to work at Vancouver Island Health Authority, Winnipeg Health Authority, Vancouver Costal Health, Neovasc Inc, and Canadian Standards Association. Many have started their own companies, like NrSign Inc, Arbutus Medical, and S2N Engineering Services. Those looking to pursue their MD or PhD have gone on to study at Berkeley and UBC. A burgeoning field, ample opportunities exist in the medical instrument industry, pharmaceutical/biochemical industry, hospitals, medical research facilities and educational institutions, and regulatory bodies, governments, and industry associations.
Alumni on Success
Andrew Ibey
Job Title
Acting Manager, Biomedical Engineering
Employer
Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO)
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Engineering in Biomedical Engineering (MEng). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
137
153
157
112
100
Offers
56
44
52
20
20
New Registrations
17
19
27
11
11
Total Enrolment
27
31
33
21
26
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
100%
based on 39 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 71 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 0.33 years and the maximum time is 2.04 years with an average of
1.18 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Biomedical Engineering (PhD)
Master of Applied Science in Biomedical Engineering (MASc)
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Master of Engineering (MEng)
Further Information
Specialization
Biomedical Engineering
Biomedical Engineering is a multidisciplinary field that involves the application of engineering techniques and technologies to medical and healthcare areas. Opportunities for interdisciplinary education and research exist in areas such as biomechanics, biomaterials, biochemical processing, cellular engineering, imaging, medical devices, micro-electro-mechanical implantation systems, physiological modelling, simulation, monitoring and control, as well as medical robotics.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-applied-science/master-engineering
Program Website
https://bme.ubc.ca/education/prospective-graduate-students/applications-admissions/application-instructions/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Applied Science
Academic Unit
School of Biomedical Engineering
Program Identifier
VGMMEN-CU
Classification
Biomedical materials
Biomechanical engineering
Biomedical instrumentation (including diagnostics)
Medical devices
Artificial tissues engineering
Biomedical signal processing
Rehabilitation engineering (except assistive technologies)
Biomedical robotics
Image guided surgery systems
Regenerative medicine (including stem cells and tissue engineering)
Program Website
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 November 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
15 January 2025
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.flickr.com/photos/185806612@N03/
https://www.instagram.com/ubcsbme/
https://www.linkedin.com/school/sbme-ubc/
https://twitter.com/BME_UBC/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Considering UBC for your graduate studies?
Here, you can choose from more than 300 graduate degree program options and 2000+ research supervisors. You can even design your own program.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC