Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-science-forestry

Master of Science in Forestry (MSc)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Science in Forestry (MSc)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Master of Science in Forestry (MSc) is a research (thesis) based Master's program. Students receive training in research techniques, and also make contributions in their own right to the body of knowledge. The type of work undertaken by an MSc in Forestry student tends to be focused, looking at a specific problem, and is generally completed within 2-3 years.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
We have approximately 85-95 thesis-based master’s students in any given year, which is about 30% of our total Forestry graduate student population. In addition to being part of the Faculty of Forestry, MSc students are also considered members of one of our three Faculty departments, based on their supervisor’s affiliation.
The Faculty of Forestry offers excellent courses and cutting edge research across a spectrum of disciplines related to forestry, and opportunities for interdisciplinary learning. Graduate students work with leading scientists in state-of-the-art facilities within the Forest Sciences Centre and at any of two research forests. We are one of the largest graduate units on campus, with over 300 students enrolled in our 7 degree programs. We attract students from around the world, with over 40 countries represented in our community. Given the global nature of modern forestry, the experience our students gain by working with colleagues from around the world is a subtle but effective means of creating the global citizens that UBC aspires to produce.
I decided to study at UBC because of the reputation of the UBC Faculty of Forestry. I was able to find two women supervisors at UBC, one being Indigenous. It was important to me to be able to work with other women in STEM as well as being able to work with other Indigenous scholars.
Gracie Crafts
Program Structure
The MSc in Forestry program requires completion of a thesis, a Forestry oral communications course (FRST 544 or approved alternate), and other approved courses for a total of 30 credits. Thesis work can be worth 6, 12, or 18 credits, with the corresponding number of course credits adjusted accordingly. In addition to FRST 544, FRST 545 (Scientific Writing) is recommended for all international students. FRST 547 (Forestry in BC) is strongly recommended for all students from outside of British Columbia, or from non-forestry backgrounds.
Thesis credit weight and courses are selected at the start of your program, in consultation with your supervisor. The master’s defense must be successfully passed, and the completed master’s thesis must meet the requirements of the Faculty of Graduate & Post-doctoral Studies. Time in program for Forestry MASc/MSc students varies, depending on the nature of the student’s research. The average timeline is 3 years
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Forestry
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Thesis required
Academic Unit
Department of Forest & Conservation Sciences
Specialization
Forestry
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
23
Writing
24
Speaking
22
Listening
23
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.5
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Course Requirements
Admission to the Master of Science (MSc) program requires an academic background in science, applied science, agricultural sciences, social science or forestry.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 February 2025
Transcript Deadline:
01 February 2025
Referee Deadline:
10 February 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 February 2025
Transcript Deadline:
01 February 2025
Referee Deadline:
10 February 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Forestry (MSc)
All applicants need firm commitment from a supervisor prior to applying.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
Funding availability should be discussed with prospective supervisors prior to submitting a program application. We require supervisors have available a minimum 2-year Master’s funding package of $18,200 annually. Some faculty may require prospective students to secure awards or scholarships to form part or all of the funding package. Refer to our financial support page for specific information and further details about awards, financial aid and research funding opportunities.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Alumni on Success
Ella Furness
Job Title
Doctoral Candidate
Employer
Cardiff University
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Science in Forestry (MSc). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
58
47
73
78
79
Offers
35
29
46
39
43
New Registrations
30
27
41
37
41
Total Enrolment
107
111
121
104
109
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
82%
based on 114 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 91 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.37 years and the maximum time is 6.49 years with an average of
2.85 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Forestry (MSc)
All applicants need firm commitment from a supervisor prior to applying.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Aitken, Sally
(forest genetics, climate change, Climate change, conservation, ecology, genetics, genomics)
Alila, Younes
(Hydrology, Flood, Water Resources, Water Structures, Forest Hydrology, Forest management, hydrological engineering)
Arcese, Peter
(Global change biology; Ecology; Conservation Biology; Evolutionary Biology; conservation finance)
Atleo, Tara
(sustainable forest management; Communities and Indigenous Knowledge)
Avramidis, Stavros
(Other natural sciences, n.e.c.; Wood-water relations and sorption thermodynamics.; Fluid flow, heat transfer, and molecular diffusion; Modeling steady-state and dynamic non-isothermal diffusion in wood.; Application of fractals and machine learning to modeling wood physical properties.; Molecular modeling of the wood nano-pore network in the cell wall.; Industrial wood kiln drying optimization and development of new drying strategies.; Radio frequency vacuum (RFV) heating and drying of wood and wood products.; Dielectric wood phytosanitation.; Wood thermal modification.)
Barbeito Sanchez, Ignacio
(refining novel silvicultural practices; establishment and management of forests under global change)
Benson-Amram, Sarah
Boedhihartono, Agni
(Forestry sciences; biodiversity; Communities and Livelihoods; conservation; Forest management; Land-use Change; social science; sustainability; Tropical Landscapes and Livelihoods)
Bohlmann, Joerg
(plant biochemistry, forestry genomics, forest health, conifers, poplar, bark beetle, mountain pine beetle, natural products, secondary metabolites, terpenes, floral scent, grapevine, Conifer genomics Forest health genomics Mountain pine beetle, fungus, pine interactions and genomics Chemical ecology of conifer, insect interactions)
Booker, Thomas
(population and quantitative genetics)
Bulkan, Janette
(aboriginal forestry, biodiversity, climate change, communities and livelihoods, conservation, corporate responsibility, forest management, forest policy, international trade, social impact, social science)
Burton, Cole
(Forestry sciences; Ecology and Quality of the Environment; Ecological Trends; Animal; Biodiversity and Biocomplexity; Landscape and Restoration; Environment Management and Protection; Biodiversity conservation; Ecological Monitoring; Landscape ecology; Mammal Ecology; Population and Community Ecology; Wildlife Management)
Cardinal-McTeague, Warren
(Earth and related environmental sciences; Forestry sciences; plant biodiversity; Indigenous environmental management and food systems; monitoring of ecosystem health and function)
Carroll, Allan
(climate change, mountain pine beetle, bark beetles, forest disturbance, integrated pest management, insect ecology, population dynamics, insect-plant interactions, Climate change, conservation, ecology, ecosystems, forest biology, forest management)
Chanway, Christopher
(Soil microbiology)
Cool, Julie
(modelling, wood products, wood science, wood)
Coops, Nicholas Charles
(Forestry sciences; Telemetry (Remote Sensing, Radar); Space Techniques; Forestry Technology and Equipment; Plants and Forests)
Cranston, Emily
(Nanoparticle synthesis, properties and applications; Bio-based materials and nanocellulose; Atomic force microscopy (forces, adhesion, friction, imaging); Colloid and interface science; Polymer chemistry; Cellulose nanocrystals; Bioproducts; Foams, emulsions, aerogels)
Dai, Chunping
(Forestry sciences; Bamboo; Bio-products; Wood Products; Wood Science; Wood Technology)
Daniels, Lori
(forest plants and trees; forest history; forest management; environmental protection and natural resource use, Climate change, ecology, fire regimes)
Davies, Jonathan
(Phylogenetics & Biodiversity. Development and application of phylogenetic methods in ecology and conservation biology)
Devisscher, Tahia
(Forestry sciences; adaptation; climate change; Human Health; Human Well-being; Nature Recovery; Social-Ecological Resilience)
El-Kassaby, Yousry
(Forestry sciences; Applied Genetics; conservation; genomics; Seed orchards’ genetics; Tree breeding; Tree domestication)
Eskelson, Bianca
(Natural resource management; Forest Biometrics; Forest Modelling; Disturbance Effects; Management Effects; Climate Effects)
Evans, Philip David
(Wood anatomy, wood durability, wood products, wood technology)
Pages
1
2
3
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
Effect of land development and tree protection strategies on urban forest structure and composition in Surrey, British Columbia
Technology supplement to carbon dioxide removal : edge-type reference electrode configuration for electrochemical clean fuel production
Improving surface quality of a polyester coating on veneer-faced honeycomb composite panel
Cello-oligosaccharides : methods to produce them, quantify their molar mass, and use them as modifiers for cellulose nanocrystals
Bamboo-wood structural composite lumber : material grading and product development
Moving beyond forest cover : linking forest density, age, and fragmentation to household diets
Hypersensitivity of peak flows to clearcut logging in British Columbia’s snow environment
What is the 'public interest?' : how forest professionals interpret institutional visions in British Columbia
Preparation and application of cellulose based sensing materials
Thermal dynamics of residential landscapes : an analysis of ecosystem structure, services, and measurement methodologies
Carbon footprint analyses of structural bamboo products
Cutting power and dust emission in sawing kiln-dried, green and frozen douglas-fir and western maple wood
Emerging bioenergy technologies : convergence and divergence of scientific literature and perspectives on X (Twitter)
Ecological impacts and stewardship opportunities of introduced Canada Goose (Branta canadensis) in the Fraser River Estuary
Lateral resistance of new mid-ply shear wall (MPSW2) connections – performance of different materials
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Forestry (PhD)
Master of Applied Science in Forestry (MASc)
Master of Forestry (MF)
Master of Geomatics for Environmental Management (MGEM)
Master of International Forestry (MIF)
Master of Sustainable Forest Management (MSFM)
Master of Urban Forestry Leadership (MUFL)
Further Information
Specialization
Forestry
Forestry offers advanced study in natural and social science, management, and economic aspects of forestry and wood science, in an interdisciplinary setting.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/forestry
Program Website
https://forestry.ubc.ca/future-students/graduate/thesis-based-degrees/master-of-science-master-of-applied-science/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Forestry
Program Identifier
VGMMSC-KE
Classification
Forestry sciences
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 February 2025
International Applicant Deadline
01 February 2025
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubcforestry
https://www.instagram.com/ubcforestry/
https://www.linkedin.com/company/ubc-faculty-of-forestry/
https://twitter.com/ubcforestry
https://www.youtube.com/user/UBCForestry/videos
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Leah Rettenbacher
I decided to study at UBC because I wanted to combine my interests in the outdoors and forests with my interest in biology which led me to UBC Forestry's Forest Sciences program for my undergraduate and now graduate degrees.
Considering Vancouver as your next home?
This city won’t disappoint. It has it all: sea, parks, mountains, beaches and all four seasons, including beautiful summers and mild, wet winters with snow.
Learn more about life in Vancouver