Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-high-performance-coaching-technical-leadership

Master of High Performance Coaching and Technical Leadership (MHPCTL)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of High Performance Coaching and Technical Leadership (MHPCTL)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Master of High Performance Coaching and Technical Leadership is a three year, 30 credit specialized program for experienced sport coaches and technical leaders who are looking to advance in their careers and engage in professional development. The program is composed of a one-year graduate certificate (HPCTL), followed by two years of graduate course work (MHPCTL). Through a partnership with the leading national agencies in high performance sport (Own The Podium (OTP), Coaching Association of Canada (CAC), Canadian Sport Institute (CSI) and National Sport Organizations) an exemplary program will be offered using a blended delivery model. More information can be found at the
HPCTL/MHPCTL
site and
FAQ section
.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The program will provide a strong foundation for present and future coaches and technical leaders by developing knowledge and skills in the interpretation and use of research, balanced with applied coaching practice.
The development of skills in analysis and evidence-based decision-making has been identified as a critical need by national coaches and technical leaders, and this program will help develop the next generation of coaches and technical leaders for Canada. A blended model of residential periods and on-line teaching methods will facilitate the participation of candidates from across Canada and around the world. The program will be integrated into the sport federations’ national coaching qualifications, providing the National Coaching Certification Program (NCCP) together with academic credentials.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Education
Mode of delivery
On campus / Online combination
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
School of Kinesiology
Specialization
High Performance Coaching and Technical Leadership
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $8,592.06 | International: $16,875.80
School
School of Kinesiology
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 96
Reading
23
Writing
24
Speaking
26
Listening
23
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.5
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
Students interested in the MHPCTL must apply to the HPCTL Graduate Certificate and successfully complete this program before being recommended for admission to the MHPCTL program
Course Requirements
Candidates will normally have a Bachelor’s degree in Human Kinetics, Physical Education, Kinesiology or other related field of study with one of the following:
A minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC) in third- and fourth-year level courses.
Academic standing with at least 12 credits of third- or fourth-year level courses in the A grade range (80% or higher at UBC) in their field of study.
Alternatively, applicants may be considered for admission who do not meet the academic requirements stated above, but who have had significant formal training and relevant professional experience, and/or otherwise possess demonstrable knowledge or expertise that would prepare them adequately for successful study in the graduate certificate program. Assessment standards will be concordant with those employed by the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies. For more information, please see
program requirements
.
Other Requirements
5 years of coaching experience, including coaching athletes at the national team or Canada Games level, or 5 years as a carded National Team athlete; National Coaching Certification Program qualification at level 3 or "Competition development"; Recommendation of the National Sport Organization; Submission of a portfolio showing an annual training plan the candidate has developed and implemented
2) Meet Deadlines
Application open dates and deadlines for an upcoming intake have not yet been configured in the admissions system. Please check back later.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Course-based programs do not have a thesis component. While they may assign academic advisors to students, they do
not
require applicants to reach out to individual professors / faculty members to seek commitment as their thesis supervisor. Please do not contact faculty members for the purposes of thesis supervision if you are applying to this program.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$2,864.02
$5,625.27
Program Fee
$17,184.12
$33,751.62
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Program Funding Packages
Targeted coaches may be able to access financial assistance through their NSO or the Canadian Sport Institute as well as Work BC. Incentive based funding may be available to coaches who demonstrate ability to complete program requirements and meet eligibility outlined for accessing financial assistance. Both the HPCTL and MHPCTL programs are not eligible for government funded loan assistance. Students are responsible for checking with the financial assistance office for further information. Students may also contact their financial institutions to find out if they may be eligible for student's line of credit.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
Graduates from this program gained credentials and pursue the following career paths:
Coaches: gain the knowledge and technical expertise to create the highest quality sport programming to ensure high performance athlete success in sport
and life.
Technical Leaders: Move into high performance leadership with a Masters credential and influence positive change in sport.
Athletes: Transition from national team programming towards a career in coaching or technical leadership by using your sport Canada tuition credits.
Mentors: Mentor the next wave of high performance coaches and leaders by joining our prestigious group of sport leaders.
Corporate leaders: Seek out the benefits of high performance sport in transforming your employees to maximize their potential.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of High Performance Coaching and Technical Leadership (MHPCTL). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
New Registrations
11
11
14
10
5
Total Enrolment
27
27
32
28
25
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
88%
based on 33 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 32 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 2.05 years and the maximum time is 5.14 years with an average of
2.64 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Graduate Certificate in High Performance Coaching and Technical Leadership (GCHPCTL)
Further Information
Specialization
High Performance Coaching and Technical Leadership
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/kinesiology
Program Website
https://kin.educ.ubc.ca/graduate-programs/hp-coaching/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Education
Academic Unit
School of Kinesiology
Program Identifier
VGMMHPCTL
Classification
Physical education and development curriculum, pedagogy and didactics
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubckin/
https://www.instagram.com/ubckin/
https://twitter.com/ubckin/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Start calling Vancouver “Home”
The metropolitan area is known for its diversity and UBC is one of the most international universities in Canada. This multicultural community means we have a wide range of restaurants, grocery stores, and events to provide a sense of belonging.
Learn more about life in Vancouver