Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-food-resource-economics

Master of Food and Resource Economics (MFRE)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Food and Resource Economics (MFRE)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Master of Food and Resource Economics (MFRE) program is a unique, one-year, course-based masters degree which integrates Economics, Policy, and Business concepts to provide data-driven solutions that meet the challenges and opportunities in the food, agriculture, and environmental sector. This degree offers a strong combination of economic, data and analytical rigour combined with a 4‐month work experience project, and a full year of data analytic and career-ready workshops that provides you with the skills and knowledge to take on real-world issues and opportunities in the food, agriculture, and environmental sector. Concentration options include Strategic Business Management, Data Analytics, Economic Modelling, and Policy Analysis. MFRE graduates have diverse job prospects and an ability to contribute actionable insights to solve global sustainability issues.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Exciting technological progress, global environmental pressures and unprecedented demographic changes are rapidly reshaping the world’s food and natural resources systems.
As local issues become global and require multidisciplinary skills & knowledge, the world is increasingly demanding professionals who can analyze, design, and integrate business, economic and policy variables that help governments, industry, and institutions create and operate better systems.
At the MFRE you will be exposed to the issues and opportunities arising from this dynamic new world, and equipped with the necessary skills to address them.
The MFRE is a 12-month masters program that blends of aspects of an MBA and a MA in Economics. It incorporates applied Economics, Business and Policy aspects within the Food, Agriculture, Natural Resources and Environmental sectors, helping students acquire a specialized understanding of these sectors and propelling them to pursue careers in academia, consulting, finance management and entrepreneurship.
Program Structure
The program is completed over three terms: the first two comprise rigorous courses in multiple specialization areas; in the third one, you will enhance and consolidate your MFRE experience through a summer graduating project. This project can take the form of research, a consultancy project or an internship.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Specialization
Food And Resource Economics
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $24,060.00 | International: $53,356.90
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
In your application to the UBC Master of Food and Resource Economics (MFRE) you will be asked to submit a Statement of Interest of approximately 500 words. In your Statement of Interest you must clearly describe the following points.
Your connection with the Food / Natural Resources / Environmental sectors. Explain how you got involved in these fields and/or you motivation to further understand them through the MFRE program.
How the MFRE program fits with your future career plans.
Your background, interests and goals. Tell us about yourself!
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 90
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
10 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
10 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
15 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
10 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
10 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
15 January 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Course-based programs do not have a thesis component. While they may assign academic advisors to students, they do
not
require applicants to reach out to individual professors / faculty members to seek commitment as their thesis supervisor. Please do not contact faculty members for the purposes of thesis supervision if you are applying to this program.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Program Components
Courses in the MFRE are organized into three pillars or knowledge areas (Economics, Policy and Business, seen from an Agriculture, Food, Natural Resources and Environmental perspective), supported by a set of quantitative & data analysis courses, and enriching professional development workshops.
The program is completed over three terms: the first two comprise rigorous courses in the key MFRE knowledge areas. During Term 3, students complete a 4-month project where they get to apply the concepts and skills learned in the first two terms. This project can take the form of research, a consultancy project or an internship. Visit our Graduating Project page to learn more about this hand-on component.
https://mfre.landfood.ubc.ca/graduating-project
Throughout the year, MFRE students participate in activities that develop, nurture and potentiate their professional skills. These activities include voice & speech, writing, and data analysis workshops, as well as seminars by industry figures, site visits, and networking events.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$8,019.99
$17,785.64
Program Fee
$24,059.97
$53,356.92
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Supplementary fees (once)
$700.00 Mandatory program fee
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$1500.00
$1500.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Program Funding Packages
1. Teaching Assistantships
Each year there are a few opportunities for MFRE students to TA undergraduate food and resource economics (FRE) courses. These are only available to exceptional students because of the time commitments required by the MFRE program. Please indicate on your application to MFRE if you are interested in a TA position, explaining why you are suitable for a given position and how you would handle the additional workload. TA positions typically range from 30–192 hours/assignment/term and pay between $18-$30 CAD per hour.
2. MFRE Merit-based Entrance Scholarships (No application required)
The MFRE program offers several scholarship opportunities to students. The admissions committee reviews the documents and grades of all incoming applicants to determine if they are eligible to be nominated for these scholarships. The scholarship recipients will be notified by email.
MFRE Scholarship. The MFRE program offers scholarships of a value of maximum $7000 to outstanding students (domestic or international). The criteria for this award include academic merit, student financial need, leadership and the recipient’s potential contribution to the MFRE program. Potential contribution ranges from bringing diversity to the program to bringing relevant professional experience to the program.
MFRE Food and/or Agricultural Sector $7000 Scholarship. Designed for an outstanding student with strong interest and/or first-hand experience in the food and/or agricultural sectors in North America, and who will contribute that experience to the MFRE program. Two of these scholarships are offered in each academic year.
MFRE Environment and/or Resource Sectors $7000 Scholarship. Designed for an outstanding student with strong interest and/or first-hand experience in the environment or resource sectors in North America, and who will contribute that experience to the MFRE program. Two of these scholarships are offered in each academic year.
For Students from China. Canadian Agri-Food Trading Inc. together with the MFRE program offer one annual $1000 scholarship to an outstanding incoming international student from China. This award will appear on the student’s academic history (transcript) as “Canadian Agri-Food Trading Intl. Graduate Scholarship in Land and Food Systems.” Two of these scholarships are offered in each academic year.
3. LFS Awards and Scholarships (No application required)
MFRE students are eligible for a small number of endowed awards with the Faculty of Land and Food Systems. These include the A.F. Barss Memorial Scholarship and the John Schildroth Memorial Scholarship.
4. Other Scholarships (Application required)
MasterCard Foundation Scholars Program at UBC For students from Sub-Saharan Africa.
Canada Graduate Scholarships — Master’s Program (deadline: December 1 in the year prior to enrolling in MFRE) For Canadian citizens or permanent residents.
Dr. Karl C. Ivarson Agricultural Scholarship For students from the province of Alberta.
5. Country-Specific Scholarships (Application required)
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
The world-class MFRE program at UBC is a powerful stepping stone that enables experienced candidates to transition to a new industry and helps younger candidates transition from an academic to a workplace environment
The MFRE alumni are currently innovative entrepreneurs or employed in exciting and forward-thinking organizations around the world in the Public, Private or Academic sectors.
Visit our
Work After MFRE section
for more employment examples.
Alumni on Success
Isaac Jonas
Job Title
Founding CEO
Employer
Impact Africa
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Food and Resource Economics (MFRE). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
245
225
375
215
186
Offers
70
65
65
63
65
New Registrations
40
38
44
35
43
Total Enrolment
42
41
44
37
43
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
99%
based on 136 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 154 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.02 years and the maximum time is 1.7 years with an average of
1.03 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Applied Animal Biology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Food Science (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Human Nutrition (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Integrated Studies in Land and Food Systems (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Plant Science (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Soil Science (PhD)
Graduate Certificate in Aquaculture (GCAQUA)
Master of Food Science (MFS)
Master of Land and Water Systems (MLWS)
Master of Science in Applied Animal Biology (MSc)
Master of Science in Food Science (MSc)
Master of Science in Human Nutrition (MSc)
Master of Science in Integrated Studies in Land and Food Systems (MSc)
Master of Science in Plant Science (MSc)
Master of Science in Soil Science (MSc)
Further Information
Specialization
Food And Resource Economics
Food And Resource Economics combines economics, policy and business as understood from an agriculture, food, natural resources and environmental perspective.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/agricultural-economics
Program Website
https://mfre.landfood.ubc.ca/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Academic Unit
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Program Identifier
VGMMFE
Classification
Agricultural economics
Environment and natural resources economics
Farm management, rural management and agribusiness
Environmental management (except in natural environment)
Environmental policy
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
10 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
10 January 2025
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubcLFS/
https://www.instagram.com/ubclfs/
https://www.linkedin.com/company/ubc-lfs/
https://twitter.com/ubclfs/
https://www.youtube.com/user/ubclandfood/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Experience the colours of Vancouver
Great academic programs, great location: the distinct seasons and mild climate are among the reasons why graduate students choose to study here -- from the autumn leaves to cherry blossoms, witness the many colours Vancouver has to offer.