Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-science-statistics

Master of Science in Statistics (MSc)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Science in Statistics (MSc)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
Established in 1983, the Department of Statistics at UBC is internationally renowned for its excellence in research and the high calibre of its faculty members. Our programs offers students different options for pursuing their interests and professional goals. We currently have programs at both the Masters and PhD levels. At the MSc level we offer a MSc in Statistics and a MSc in Statistics with a Biostatistics option (in collaboration with the School of Population and Public Health). Students can choose to do a thesis, a final project or an
8-month full-time Co-op placement
(internship) outside the Department.
With appropriately selected courses during their MSc program, our students can prepare themselves for a successful career in biostatistics, bioinformatics / genomics, data mining, statistical computing, among others.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The Department is renowned in Canada for its research excellence and its leadership in the research community. Students are engaged through both courses and research, and develop a strong set of skills, both applied and theoretical. The Department has always valued data driven research, consulting and collaboration, and has long held communication and computing skills as crucial for success. These values are apparent not only in individual faculty’s research programs but also in our undergraduate and graduate curriculum.
Graduate students participate actively in our research, teaching and consulting activities, and enjoy a wide variety of opportunities for interaction with other researchers and students on- and off-campus. These opportunities are facilitated by the involvement of our faculty members in various collaborative and interdisciplinary research projects. In addition, our graduate students run their own statistical consulting service, which provides them with professional (paid) experience even before they finish their program.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Science
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Options
Academic Unit
Department of Statistics
Specialization
Statistics
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.5
Reading
6.5
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Course Requirements
The department's Admissions Committee has outlined the following requirements, along with other desired courses and skills.  Note that meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission.   Note also that an applicant missing a course or two but with other strong attributes, such as work experience as a statistician, will be seriously considered.
MATHEMATICS COURSES
required: calculus (differentiation, integration, multivariable calculus) as obtained in UBC MATH 100, 200, 253
required:  linear algebra, as obtained in UBC MATH 221
In addition, the student should have some ability in constructing proofs, for instance concerning continuity and limits, such as acquired in UBC MATH 200.
PROBABILITY COURSES
required: an intoductory course including axioms of probability, various common distributions, multivariate distributions and some limit theorems, as obtained through UBC MATH/STAT 302 or  via the text Introduction to Probability and Its Applications, 2nd edition, by R.L. Scheaffer.
recommended but not required: stochastic processes, as obtained through UBC MATH 303
COMPUTING SKILLS
required:  familiarity with R
recommended but not required: experience in coding such as C/C+ or Python
STATISTICS COURSES
required: an introductory course in statistical methods, such as UBC STAT 200 or via the text Statistics Data and Models, Pearson Canada, 2015, by De Veaux Velleman and Bock
required: a course in statistical inference/mathematical statistics: theory of estimation and hypothesis testing, such as UBC STAT 305 or via the text Mathematical Statistics and Data Analysis, Wadsworth & Brooks/Cole, 1988, by John Rice
required: either a course in regression analysis or a course in the design of experiments/ANOVA.  The regression course should cover the material in UBC STAT 306, with text Applied Linear Regression, Wiley, by S. Weisberg. The design/ANOVA course should cover the material in UBC STAT 404, with text Design and Analysis of Experiments, Wiley, latest edition, by D. Montgomery.
Document Requirements
We require a statement of interest (1 page maximum), as well as a CV.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
06 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
06 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
20 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
06 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
06 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
20 January 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Statistics (MSc)
The program will review research interests of applicants and recommend/match faculty members during the application/evaluation process. Applicants should not reach out to faculty members directly.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Focus
Faculty and Graduate Students are engaged in a wide variety of cutting edge research areas, and the Statistics Department is a hub of collaborative research with other Departments on campus. Research areas include Bayesian Statistics, Bioinformatics & Genomics, Biostatistics, Environmental & Spatial Statistics, Forest Products Stochastics Modeling, Multivariate & Time Series Analysis, Robust Statistics, and Statistical Learning.
Program Components
Besides required courses, MSc. students must complete either a thesis or major project. During the first year, students can apply for a Co-op option, and complete two Co-op terms.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
MSc. students receive approximately $18,000 per year in funding in the form of Teaching and Research Assistantships. Additional funding opportunities may be available through additional appointments and employment with our student consulting service.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
Our MSc program is flexible, and allows students to prepare themselves for a successful career in industry or the public sector, or to enter a PhD program. Former students looking for a job after graduation have been promptly offered employment in many different industries and government agencies, while those who wanted to pursue a PhD degree have been admitted to top-ranked schools. Please view a list of
alumni and their first positions
after graduation on our website.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Science in Statistics (MSc). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
290
235
379
240
263
Offers
24
27
25
19
15
New Registrations
11
13
12
16
11
Total Enrolment
23
27
30
34
23
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
94%
based on 48 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 49 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.02 years and the maximum time is 5.47 years with an average of
2.09 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Statistics (MSc)
The program will review research interests of applicants and recommend/match faculty members during the application/evaluation process. Applicants should not reach out to faculty members directly.
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Auger-Methe, Marie
(Fisheries sciences; Statistics; Zoology; Animal movement; Polar ecology; Statistical Ecology)
Bloem-Reddy, Benjamin
(developing methods for evolving networks whose history is unobserved; distributional limits of preferential attachment networks; uses of symmetry in statistics, computation, and machine learning)
Bouchard-Cote, Alexandre
(machine/statistical learning; mathematical side of the subject as well as in applications in linguistics and biology)
Campbell, Trevor
(automated, scalable Bayesian inference algorithms; Bayesian nonparametrics; streaming data; Bayesian theory; Probabilistic Inference; computational statistics; large-scale data)
Chen, Jiahua
(Statistical theory and modeling; empirical likelihood; finite mixture model; sample survey; asymptotic theory; imputation)
Cohen Freue, Gabriela
(statistical genomics (focus in proteomics), robust estimation and inference, linear models with endogeneity )
Gao, Lucy
(Statistics; Selective Inference; Inference x Unsupervised Learning; Statistics x Optimization)
Gustafson, Paul
(Statistics; meta-analysis; Parametric and Non-Parametric Inference; Theoretical Statistics; Pharmacoepidemiology; Bayesian statistical methods; Biostatistics and Epidemiology; Causal inference; Evidence synthesis; Partial Identification)
Joe, Harry Sue Wah
(Statistics; Statistics and Probabilities; copula construction; dependence modelling; extreme value inference; non-normal time series; parsimonous high-dimensional dependence)
Korthauer, Keegan
(Bioinformatics; Genomics; Statistics; Epigenomics; Single-cell analysis; Statistical genomics)
McDonald, Daniel
(High dimensional data analysis; Computational methods in statistics; Statistical theory and modeling; Machine learning; Epidemiology (except nutritional and veterinary epidemiology); Methods and models for epidemiological forecasting; Estimation and quantification of prediction risk; Evaluating the predictive abilities of complex dependent data; Application of statistical learning techniques to time series prediction problems; Investigations of cross-validation and the bootstrap for risk estimation)
Nolde, Natalia
(Statistics; Statistics and Probabilities; Applications in finance, insurance, geosciences; Multivariate extreme value theory; Risk assessment)
Park, Yongjin
(Other basic medicine and life sciences; High dimensional data analysis; Biostatistical methods; Bioinformatics; single-cell genomics; Computational Biology; Causal inference; Bayesian machine learning)
Pleiss, Geoffrey
(Statistical theory and modeling; Machine learning; Computational methods in statistics; Spatial statistics; Numerical analysis; Machine Learning; neural networks; Gaussian processes; Bayesian optimization; reliable deep learning)
Salibian-Barrera, Matias
(S-regression estimationg, robust statistics, functional principal component analysis, bootstrap estimators, rgam, clustering algorithm)
Welch, William
(Computational methods in statistics; Computer experiments; Design and analysis of experiments; Statistical machine learning; Environmental modellign)
Wu, Lang
(Biostatistical methods; Longitudinal data analysis, mixed effects models, missing data, hypothesis testing, biostatistics)
Sample Thesis Submissions
Extending hidden Markov models for rhythmicity
The impact of disease-modifying drugs for multiple sclerosis on hospitalizations and mortality in British Columbia : a retrospective study using an illness-death multi-state model
Integrating representative and non-representative survey data for efficient inference
A new data driven framework for simulating mendelian randomization data
Extending an invariant models method to domain generalization settings in ecological data
Robust sparse covariance-regularized regression for high-dimensional data with Casewise and Cellwise outliers
Regularized relative risk regression : a non-GLM approach with emphasis on large p, small N simulations
Penalized competing risks analysis using casebase sampling
Enhancing the robustness of instrumental variable estimation with potentially invalid instruments and its application to Mendelian randomization
On the improvement of density ratio estimation via probabilistic classifier : theoretical study and its applications
The consequences of prior misspecification in Bayesian adjustment for confounders
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Statistics (PhD)
Further Information
Specialization
Statistics
Research interests of the faculty include biostatistics, environmetrics, mathematical modelling of biological systems, computational statistics, data mining, machine learning, theory of statistical inference, asymptotics, multivariate analysis, robustness, nonparametrics, design of experiments, smoothing, Bayesian methods, computational molecular biology, gene expression, and microarrays.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/statistics
Program Website
https://www.stat.ubc.ca/graduate
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Science
Academic Unit
Department of Statistics
Program Identifier
VGMMSC-XA
Classification
Statistics
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
06 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
06 January 2025
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Considering Vancouver as your next home?
This city won’t disappoint. It has it all: sea, parks, mountains, beaches and all four seasons, including beautiful summers and mild, wet winters with snow.
Learn more about life in Vancouver