Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-arts-literacy-education

Master of Arts in Literacy Education (MA)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Arts in Literacy Education (MA)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
Our programs in Literacy Education engage teachers and other professional educators in the study of rich language and literacy practices from early childhood through adolescence and adulthood. Literacy studies have expanded dramatically in recent years and our internationally known Faculty draw on many disciplines that inform the study of language and literacy education, including cognitive, linguistic, anthropological, cultural, literary, critical and post-structural perspectives.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The Department takes a critical and social justice approach to theory and research. Faculty members in the Literacy program have expertise in the following areas:
Indigenous languages and literacies
Literature and cultural texts for children and youth
Drama and theatre education in schools and communities
Literary and literacy practices in families, schools, and communities
Digital cultures, multimodality, and communication ecologies/studies
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Education
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Thesis required
Academic Unit
Department of Language & Literacy Education
Specialization
Literacy Education
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $7,885.56 | International: $16,223.20
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
Assessments for M.Ed. and M.A. applicants will be based on:
undergraduate credits (3rd and 4th level coursework) prescribed by the Department as prerequisite to the program.
minimum GPA of 76% average
In cases where applicants have also completed graduate level coursework toward a master’s or doctoral level program, or as an unclassified student, this coursework is assessed separately.
A considerably higher standing may be required because of competitive demand.
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 92
Reading
22
Writing
22
Speaking
22
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.5
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
An approved Bachelor’s degree and, for K-12 teachers, one year of teacher education;* OR
5-year Bachelor’s degree in Education; OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree in Education or other appropriate area provided the applicant has completed all the necessary prerequisites listed below.
Holders of 3-year Canadian degrees require a fourth or honours year.
Document Requirements
- Bachelor’s degree in relevant Educational discipline or other appropriate area with high standing,
- Sample of work demonstrating an ability to undertake research and scholarly writing (max. 30 pages).
- CV or resume outlining work experience and academic background
- Well-written 500 word (maximum) Statement of Intent to describe your proposed research.  Be sure to indicate how your previous education and professional experience have prepared you to undertake your research, and note which people in the department have expertise in your intended area of study. State any work you have done in this area already (mention specific skills/techniques you have picked up).
- Three letters of recommendation; at least one reference letter must be an academic reference by a university instructor
- Scanned copies all official transcripts (including a key to transcript grades and symbols) and degree certificates from all post-secondary institutions attended outside UBC.
Other Requirements
Awards; fellowships; scholarships; and distinctions.
Relevant professional and academic experience including conference presentations, professional workshops, and publications.
At least two years of successful teaching experience or equivalent.
Applicants who received a degree from a North American university are not required to submit their English test scores. Similarly, applicants who completed their degree outside North America from an institution in which English was the primary language of instruction of the entire university (not just a program) are not required to provide English test scores as part of their application.
Please note that we can only accept your English test scores if the test has been taken within the last 24 months at the time of submission of the application. An official test score report ordered from the testing agency has to be sent to UBC. Acceptable English language proficiency tests for applicants to UBC Grad School are:
TOEFL – Test of English as a Foreign Language, minimum score 580 (paper-based) or 237 (computer based), or new minimum TOEFL score of 92 (with a minimum of 22 for each component).
or
MELAB – Michigan English Language Assessment Battery. Minimum overall score 85.
or
IELTS – International English Language Testing System – Academic. Minimum overall band score 7, with no component less than 6.5.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
05 August 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 February 2025
Transcript Deadline:
06 February 2025
Referee Deadline:
16 February 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
06 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
15 December 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Arts in Literacy Education (MA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. However, it is not necessary for applicants to contact faculty members prior to their application.
There is no need to find a supervisor prior to applying for the program. If you are successful in the application process, you will be assigned a pro-tem supervisor whose research is closest to your area of interest. However, if you are interested in working with a particular faculty member, you can indicate it in your statement of interest or in the application form.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Highlights
The Department takes a critical and social justice approach to theory and research. Faculty members in the Literacy program have expertise in the following areas:
Indigenous languages and literacies
Literature and cultural texts for children and youth
Drama and theatre education in schools and communities
Literary and literacy practices in families, schools, and communities
Digital cultures, multimodality, and communication ecologies/studies
Research Focus
The Department takes a critical and social justice approach to theory and research. Faculty members in the Literacy program have expertise in the following areas:
Indigenous languages and literacies
Literature and cultural texts for children and youth
Drama and theatre education in schools and communities
Literary and literacy practices in families, schools, and communities
Digital cultures, multimodality, and communication ecologies/studies
Program Components
The program (30 credits) consists of course work and a thesis. A maximum of 6 credits may be taken at the 300- or 400-level. A 9-credit thesis (LLED 599) is included. All master’s students in LLED must take EDUC 500 as a basic research methods requirement.
Geographic Restrictions
The program accepts well-qualified students from around the globe into a richly international and multicultural academic community.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$2,628.52
$5,407.74
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$7,885.56
$16,223.22
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$1,500.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
Students may be funded with up to $3000 in the first year based on the budget of the department.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
Our programs in Literacy Education engage teachers and other professional educators in the study of rich language and literacy practices from early childhood through adolescence and adulthood. Our focus is on the many rich, multiethnic and multilingual contexts of language and literacy learning in our schools and communities.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Arts in Literacy Education (MA). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
3
4
4
3
7
Offers
2
2
1
2
5
New Registrations
1
2
1
2
4
Total Enrolment
8
9
6
9
8
Completion Rates & Times
Based on 8 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 0.33 years and the maximum time is 3.75 years with an average of
2.16 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Arts in Literacy Education (MA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. However, it is not necessary for applicants to contact faculty members prior to their application.
There is no need to find a supervisor prior to applying for the program. If you are successful in the application process, you will be assigned a pro-tem supervisor whose research is closest to your area of interest. However, if you are interested in working with a particular faculty member, you can indicate it in your statement of interest or in the application form.
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Ahmed, Anwar
(Languages and literature)
Belliveau, George
(Art education, drama education, pedagogy, teacher research)
Bryson, Mary
(technology, media, cultural studies, gender, queer theory, deviance studies, post-colonial pedagogies, Sociology, Women's Studies, Education, media and gender, media and education)
Corella Morales, Meghan
(Other languages and literature; Academic Discourse; Children and youth; Discourse Analysis; Language ideology; Sociolinguistics)
Darvin, Ron
(development of diverse digital practices for learners of unequal resources)
Dobson, Teresa
(Media and communications; Literary Education; Digital Literacy; Digital Humanities; Text Visualization)
Galla, Candace
(what types of technology initiatives (low-, mid-, or high) Indigenous language communities are using to revitalize, maintain, and promote their language)
Gladwin, Derek
(Other languages and literature; Cultural Studies; Digital & Media Literacy; Environmental & Energy Literacy; Environmental Humanities; Food Literacy; Literary Education; Sustainability Education; Writing & Rhetoric)
Gunderson, Lee Paul
(Languages and literature; reading-research; immigrant-achievement; home literacy environment)
Hare, Jan
(Aboriginal youth mobility, Aboriginal family and community perspectives on early literacy, literature, identity construction and urban Aboriginal youth, Cultural studies, early childhood, first nations education)
Jenson, Jennifer
(Other languages and literature; Digital Cultures and Education; Digital Games; Game-based Learning; Gender; Online Learning; technology; Technology Implementation and integration)
Kendrick, Maureen
(literacy, digital literacy, Children and youth, ESL, international perspectives)
Kumpulainen, Kristiina
(Languages and literature; Critical literacies/pedagogies; Digital Literacies; identity; Multiliteracy and multimodality; Place-based literacies; Storytelling/narrative inquiry)
Li, Guofang
(longitudinal studies of immigrant children)
Rajagopal, Harini
(Multiliteracy and multimodality; Bilingual/Multilingual education; Decolonizing pedagogies and knowledges)
Rogers, Theresa
(Children's literatures; Other languages and literature; Children's and Adolescent Literature; Digital Literacies; Education; Educational Approaches; Literacy; Youth Studies)
Sample Thesis Submissions
Get it together : video game play in and out of school
The veil between worlds : examining the present by exploring the fantastic in a secondary classroom
After the applause : audience responses of parents through a/r/tographical scripting
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Education in Literacy Education (MEd)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Language and Literacy Education (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Teaching English as a Second Language (PhD)
Master of Arts in Modern Languages Education (MA)
Master of Arts in Teaching English as a Second Language (MA)
Master of Education in Modern Languages Education (MEd)
Master of Education in Teaching English as a Second Language (MEd)
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Master of Education, Master of Arts in Education (MEd, MA)
Further Information
Specialization
Literacy Education
Literacy Education offers opportunities to study in the areas of English education, drama education and reading from cognitive, social, cultural, and poststructuralist perspectives. Research areas within the program include: child language development in education, composition (writing); early, intermediate, adolescent and adult literacy; family literacy; children's and young adult literature; Aboriginal literacy; teacher librarianship; and arts-based and multimodal approaches to literacy learning.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/literacy-education
Program Website
https://lled.educ.ubc.ca/programs/literacy-education/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Education
Academic Unit
Department of Language & Literacy Education
Program Identifier
VGMMAA-O4
Classification
Humanities and social sciences curriculum, pedagogy and didactics (except economics, business and management)
Languages
Literature and literary studies
Other languages and literature
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
05 August 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 February 2025
International Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://twitter.com/UBC_LLED/
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC3MyApPu3iCga0NMUxqmEyQ/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver