Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-data-science-computational-linguistics

Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Data Science in Computational Linguistics (MDSCL)
Master of Data Science in Computational Linguistics (MDSCL)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
The Master of Data Science is not administered by the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies. Please check the
program website
for information about the application process.
Overview
Passionate about language and curious about data?
UBC's Master of Data Science degree in Computational Linguistics is the credential to set you apart. Offered at the Vancouver campus this unique degree is tailored to those with a passion for language and data. Over 10 months, the program combines foundational data science courses with advanced computational linguistics courses—equipping graduates with the skills to turn language-related data into knowledge and to build AI that can interpret human language
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Courses are taught by a combined arts (linguistics), computer science, and statistics faculty giving students access to key experts within each field of study. Students learn fundamental data science skills, techniques, and tools with the core Master of Data Science cohort, then branch off into more specialized courses, experiencing the benefits of a large program and small program in one
The program structure includes 24 one-credit courses offered in four-week segments. Courses are lab-oriented and delivered in-person with some blended online content.
At the end of the six segments, an eight-week six-credit capstone project is also included, allowing students to apply their newly acquired knowledge, while working alongside other students with real-life data sets.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Arts
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Department of Linguistics
Specialization
Data Science
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $35,149.70 | International: $54,732.60
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Meet a Representative
UBC MDS Computational Linguistics Alumni Panel
online
Date
:
Friday, 25 October 2024
Time
:
12:30
Want to know what it is like to be a student in the UBC Master of Data Science (MDS) Computational Linguistics program? Join the UBC MDS Computational Linguistics program on October 25th where attendees will learn more about the student experience from alumni of the program. Register now and submit your questions in advance.
Register
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$11,716.57
$18,244.19
Program Fee
$35,149.71
$54,732.57
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$3000.00
$3000.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Data Science in Computational Linguistics (MDSCL). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
129
111
152
123
124
Offers
55
43
46
39
30
New Registrations
35
35
35
33
27
Total Enrolment
36
36
38
34
27
Completion Rates & Times
Based on 124 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.02 years and the maximum time is 1.7 years with an average of
1.03 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Data Science (MDS)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Linguistics (PhD)
Master of Arts in Linguistics (MA)
Further Information
Specialization
Data Science
Data Science is an interdisciplinary field about processes and systems to extract knowledge or insights from data in various forms.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-science/professional-masters-degrees/data-science-mds
Program Website
https://masterdatascience.ubc.ca/programs/computational-linguistics
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Arts
Academic Unit
Department of Linguistics
Program Identifier
VGMMDSCL
Classification
High dimensional data analysis
Computational methods in statistics
Machine learning
Natural language processing
Data mining
Computational linguistics
Program Website
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
04 November 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
31 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
31 January 2025
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubcmasterofdatascience/
https://www.linkedin.com/showcase/ubc-master-of-data-science-program/
https://twitter.com/UBCMDS/
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCSJ_h9eR5xIu4fgL8ko-TEA
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Experience the colours of Vancouver
Great academic programs, great location: the distinct seasons and mild climate are among the reasons why graduate students choose to study here -- from the autumn leaves to cherry blossoms, witness the many colours Vancouver has to offer.