Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-engineering-chemical-biological-engineering

Master of Engineering in Chemical and Biological Engineering (MEng)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Engineering in Chemical and Biological Engineering (MEng)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
The Master of Engineering is not administered by the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies. Please check the
UBC Engineering
website for admission requirements, deadlines and application procedure.
Overview
The Master of Engineering is a course-based program designed for engineers wishing to upgrade their training. During this 12-16 month program students take a prescribed set of courses.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
Program Structure
The program requires completion of at least 30 credits. In some program areas, minimum requirements may be higher than 30 credits:
At least 24 credits must be at the 500-level.
A minimum of 18 of the 24 credits must be in the program area at the 500-level, including a project, if required, up to a maximum 6 credits.
A maximum of 6 credits may be taken at the 300-/400-level.
A maximum of 6 credits of 500-level directed studies courses may be counted toward the program requirements.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Applied Science
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Department of Chemical & Biological Engineering
Specialization
Chemical and Biological Engineering
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $6,704.13 | International: $25,109.30
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$2,234.71
$8,369.77
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$6,704.13
$25,109.31
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
Chemical & Biological Engineers have a strong understanding of how the physical, chemical and biological sciences intersect, complemented with mathematics.  Chemical & Biological Engineers are also trained in safety, the environment, economics and management.
Graduates in Chemical & Biological Engineering have critical roles as leaders in:
Biological Systems Engineering
Sustainable Production of Healthy Food
Zero Carbon Emission Fuels and Energy
Biotechnology-based Production of Green Products, Materials and Renewable Fuels
Smart and Biodegradable Materials
Carbon Capture Technology to Reduce GHGs
Better, More Affordable Healthcare
Sustainable Management of Natural Resources
Sustainable Forest-based Products
Clean Drinking Water and Wastewater Treatment
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Engineering in Chemical and Biological Engineering (MEng). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
108
122
163
146
116
Offers
20
34
44
31
37
New Registrations
2
11
16
8
19
Total Enrolment
15
25
23
18
26
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
95%
based on 43 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 44 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 0.33 years and the maximum time is 2.39 years with an average of
1.45 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Chemical and Biological Engineering (PhD)
Master of Applied Science in Chemical and Biological Engineering (MASc)
Master of Science in Chemical and Biological Engineering (MSc)
Same Academic Unit
Master of Engineering Leadership in Sustainable Process Engineering (MEL)
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Master of Engineering (MEng)
Further Information
Specialization
Chemical and Biological Engineering
Chemical and Biological Engineering provides innovative and sustainable solutions to pressing local and global challenges to industry and society, with faculty being engaged in the following broad areas:
Biotechnology,
Chemical Process Engineering,
Energy and Materials,
Environmental Engineering.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-applied-science/master-engineering
Program Website
https://chbe.ubc.ca/future-students/graduate/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Applied Science
Academic Unit
Department of Chemical & Biological Engineering
Program Identifier
VGMMEN-D2
Classification
Chemical engineering
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 May 2025
International Applicant Deadline
01 April 2025
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/CHBEUBC/
https://twitter.com/CHBEUBC/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Considering Vancouver as your next home?
This city won’t disappoint. It has it all: sea, parks, mountains, beaches and all four seasons, including beautiful summers and mild, wet winters with snow.
Learn more about life in Vancouver