Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-arts-educational-studies

Master of Arts in Educational Studies (MA)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Arts in Educational Studies (MA)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The MA program in Educational Studies is a department-wide
thesis based program
that can be completed full-time over a two year period or part-time over a longer period.
MA students can focus their studies in one of four MA concentrations:
Adult Learning and Education (ALE)
Educational Leadership and Administration (EDAL)
Higher Education (HIED)
Society, Culture and Politics in Education (SCPE)
MA students may also enroll in a general concentration.
The EDST MA is for students who are interested in learning and writing education research or in becoming educational researchers. The program also prepares students for continuing doctoral work in education (PhD and EdD), should they wish to pursue this option.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The Educational Studies department is multidisciplinary with representation from history, philosophy, sociology, political science, economics, gender studies, and law. We welcome students from diverse life and work backgrounds and research interests.
We have a global faculty and student profile from North and the America, Asia, Europe, Africa, and the Middle East.
We pride ourselves on our established theory-praxis tradition and a strong commitment to social justice.
Our department is situated within a research-intensive university and works with other faculties to produce cutting-edge research.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Education
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Thesis required
Academic Unit
Department of Educational Studies
Specialization
Educational Studies
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $7,885.56 | International: $16,223.20
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
Please ensure you follow the instructions in the online application system. After submitting your application, it is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all supporting materials are submitted properly and by the application deadline. The Admissions Committee will only review complete applications. You can check the status of your application and supporting materials through the online application system.
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 92
Reading
22
Writing
22
Speaking
22
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 August 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 November 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 November 2024
Referee Deadline:
29 November 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 November 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 November 2024
Referee Deadline:
29 November 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Arts in Educational Studies (MA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$2,628.52
$5,407.74
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$7,885.56
$16,223.22
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$1,500.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
Our MA program is broad and open to cater to students with diverse career interests. Graduates of our program find themselves in successful careers in fields including school boards, teaching, curriculum development, consulting, administration, nongovernmental organizations, international organizations, the corporate sector, and social enterprises.
Alumni on Success
Ryan van den Berg
Job Title
Analyst
Employer
Library of Parliament
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Arts in Educational Studies (MA). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
19
37
41
24
36
Offers
5
10
7
9
16
New Registrations
1
7
3
5
12
Total Enrolment
15
25
26
32
32
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
79%
based on 41 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 26 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 0.68 years and the maximum time is 6.84 years with an average of
2.46 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Arts in Educational Studies (MA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Abdi, Ali
(Comparative and cross-cultural education; Decolonizing philosophies of education, Development education, Critical research methodologies,; Human rights education)
Ahenakew, Cash
(Cultural studies, Higher Education, Indigenous Studies, Leadership and Organizations, Post-colonial studies, Race/ethnicity, Research methodologies, Social justice, Sociology of Education)
Andres, Lesley
(Higher education; life course research; international comparative higher education; sociology of higher education)
De Oliveira Andreotti, Vanessa
(Education for/about international development, Social accountability in local and global engagements, Global Citizenship Education)
Ellis, Jason
(Canadian history; Specialized studies in education; Educational policy; Education policy; history of education)
Fallon, Gerald
(Indigenous Studies, International and Comparative Education, Leadership and Organizations, Policy, Research methodologies)
Gill, Hartej
(Cultural studies, Leadership and Organizations, Post-colonial studies, Teaching and Practice)
Gleason, Mona
(History, archaeology and related studies)
Kelly, Deirdre
(Children and youth, Gender studies, Media and democracy, Social justice, Sociology of Education)
Kovach, Margaret
Mazawi, Andre
(Citizenship and democracy, Higher education, International and Comparative Education, Leadership and organizations, Research methodologies, Sociology of Education)
Metcalfe, Amy
(Higher education; Educational policy; History and philosophy of education; Visual theory, visual culture and visual literacy; Higher Education Studies; Higher Education Policy; Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Higher Education; Science and Knowledge; Internationalization; Migration Studies; Academic Labour and Mobility; Visual Research Methods; Campus Environments)
Rocha Perkerwicz, Samuel
(Educational policy; Specialized studies in education; Philosophical Traditions in Education; philosophy of education)
Roman, Leslie
(Ethnography, Cultural studies, Disability studies, Sociology of Education)
Ruitenberg, Claudia
(History and philosophy of education; Political science and policy administration; Environmental education and extension; Environmental philosophy and education; philosophy of education; Political education)
Shan, Hongxia
(Other education, n.e.c.; Immigration and adult education and learning; Lifelong learning; Gender and work; Prof. learning)
Stack, Michelle
(Adult and continuing education, and community education; Educational policy; Media studies (except social media and digital media); Community Engaged Research; Knowledge translation; Cooperatives and Social Solidarity Economies; University Rankings and Equity; Disability studies; anti-racism; media education)
Stein, Sharon Rebekah
(Higher education; Educational policy; Specialized studies in education; Educational theory; Global education; Higher Education; International and comparative education; International education; Pedagogy and education; Post-colonial studies; Race/ethnicity; Social and Cultural Foundations of Education; Social justice; sustainability; climate change)
Taylor, Alison
(Adult and continuing education, and community education; Educational administration, management and leadership; Educational policy; Higher education; Specialized studies in education; Education, Knowledge and Skills; Educational Context; Political Contexts; Social Contexts; Social Policies)
Vanwynsberghe, Robert
(Citizenship and democracy, Social justice, Sustainability; Sustainability; Environmental Education; Theory and Method)
Walker, Judith
(Adult and continuing education, and community education; Sociology of education; Educational policy; Adult education; Higher Education; policy studies; Health Professions Education)
Wang, Fei
(Educational administration, management and leadership; Educational policy; Specialized studies in education; Educational administration and leadership in K-12 setting; Leadership; the role of the school principals; social justice and diversity; comparative policy studies; Education and Training Management; Ideology and Social Policy; Social Contract and Social Justice; Offshore school and its leadership)
Webb, P. Taylor
(Education systems; Philosophy; Education governance, policy, and politics; Michel Foucault; Gilles Deleuze; Neoliberalism; Governmentality; Micropolitics; Biopolitics; Subjectivity; Artificial Intelligence)
Wright, Handel
(Educational policy; Specialized studies in education; (post)multiculturalism and multicultural education; Africana studies; Critical Race Theory; Cultural Studies; Educational Approaches; identity, citizenship and belonging; postcolonialism and decolonization; Transcultural Studies; Youth Studies; anti-racism)
Sample Thesis Submissions
An exploration of how science faculty construct “scientific research” in first year undergraduate teaching
Neoliberal equity, diversity, and inclusion? : a critical discourse analysis of the OECD's principles for inclusive curriculum
Mapping opportunity hoarding : historicizing Seattle Public Schools' attendance zone boundaries
Investigating Vancouver School Board teachers' capacity building experiences with anti-racism mentorship and learning support
“Unconfinable knowledge” : curating, the curatorial and decolonization in the performing arts
Examining climate change frames in education, policy, and science
Examining the OECD’s perspective on AI in education policy : a critical analysis of language and structure in the ‘AI and the future of skills’ (AIFS) document and its implications for the higher education
Education & ecology : a systemic study of ecological literacy projects
Reimagining sexual health education : centering youths' perspectives
"Protect the children, save the family" - 'gender ideology' in the classroom : a case study of moral panic in Brazil
Pathologizing experiences : a discourse analysis of education policies of K-12 students from refugee backgrounds in Canada
Multimodal possibilities for intercultural engagement : an analysis of a popular Chinese as a second language textbook
The road to employability : student voices amidst institutional discourse
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Educational Studies (PhD)
Master of Education in Educational Studies (MEd)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Education in Educational Leadership and Policy (EdD)
Graduate Certificate in Adult Learning and Education (GCALE)
Graduate Certificate in Higher Education (GCHIED)
Master of Education in Adult Learning and Education (MEd)
Master of Education in Adult Learning and Global Change (MEd)
Master of Education in Curriculum and Leadership (MEd)
Master of Education in Educational Administration and Leadership (MEd)
Master of Education in Higher Education (MEd)
Master of Education in Society, Culture and Politics in Education (MEd)
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Master of Education, Master of Arts in Education (MEd, MA)
Further Information
Specialization
Educational Studies
Educational Studies offers concentrations in Adult Learning and Education; Higher Education; Society, Culture and Politics in Education; and Educational Administration and Leadership.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/educational-studies
Program Website
https://edst.educ.ubc.ca/programs/ma-in-educational-studies/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Education
Academic Unit
Department of Educational Studies
Program Identifier
VGMMAA-G4
Classification
Education
Specialized studies in education
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 August 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 November 2024
International Applicant Deadline
15 November 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://twitter.com/edstubc/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver