Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-science-experimental-medicine

Master of Science in Experimental Medicine (MSc)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Science in Experimental Medicine (MSc)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
Experimental Medicine is the study of the pathogenesis and treatment of disease. Modern experimental medicine represents a rapidly growing body of knowledge involving the determination of diseases processes and the development of appropriate therapies.
The Experimental Medicine Program is intended for individuals seeking a career in research. The Department of Medicine offers opportunities and facilities for advanced studies in experimental medicine, leading toward the M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees. Members of the Department direct research programs in a wide range of basic and clinically relevant areas. There are a variety of special interest areas of national and international stature. Specialties within the Experimental Medicine Program include: Cardiology, Endocrinology, Gastroenterology, Hematology, Infectious Diseases, Medical Immunology, Medical Oncology, Molecular Biology, Nephrology, Neurology and Respiratory Medicine.
Students may work with investigators located on the main campus of the University of B.C., or they may work in laboratories located off campus (Vancouver General Hospital, Jack Bell Research Centre, Terry Fox Laboratory, St. Paul's Hospital, Biomedical Research Centre, BC Children's Hospital).
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
The opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration at UBC were a key deciding factor. I was fortunate to work with a team of experts from a variety of seemingly disconnected fields such as engineering, pathology, and radiation oncology. Being part of a robust team, I gained a deeper appreciation of the synergistic potential when diverse expertise converges with a shared goal.
Jamie Kwon
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Medicine
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Thesis required
Academic Unit
Experimental Medicine Program
Specialization
Experimental Medicine
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for May 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 96
Reading
22
Writing
22
Speaking
22
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
7.0
Writing
7.0
Speaking
7.0
Listening
7.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
Students admitted to the M.Sc. program in Experimental Medicine normally possess a B.Sc. in life sciences, biology, zoology, biochemistry, or related disciplines, or have an M.D., D.M.D. or D.V.M..
2) Meet Deadlines
May 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 May 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
31 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
31 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
31 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
31 December 2024
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 May 2025
Transcript Deadline:
31 May 2025
Referee Deadline:
31 May 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 April 2025
Transcript Deadline:
30 April 2025
Referee Deadline:
30 April 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Experimental Medicine (MSc)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
It is not required to secure a supervisor at the time of the application, but the application will only be reviewed once a supervisor is secured.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
Effective September 2024, students who start in the Experimental Medicine M.Sc. program and who do not have a major scholarship, will receive a minimum stipend of $30,000 per year from their supervisor.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Science in Experimental Medicine (MSc). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
58
54
64
67
85
Offers
26
23
49
30
27
New Registrations
20
20
43
25
23
Total Enrolment
82
92
88
71
91
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
84%
based on 113 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 93 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.36 years and the maximum time is 5.8 years with an average of
2.93 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Experimental Medicine (MSc)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
It is not required to secure a supervisor at the time of the application, but the application will only be reviewed once a supervisor is secured.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Afshar, Kourosh
(Genital reconstruction and pediatric renal transplant)
Aparicio, Samuel
(Breast cancer, genome sequencing )
Ashe, Maureen
(Mobile health (mHealth); Knowledge translation and implementation science in health; Patient and citizen engagement research; Physical therapy)
Atiquzzaman, Mohammad
(pharmacoepidemiologic studies)
Av-Gay, Yossef
(Tuberculosis)
Avina, Antonio
(Systemic Autoimmune Rheumatic Diseases (SARDs); Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE); Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA); Long term effectiveness; Multivariate analyses; Outcomes assessment; Pharmaco-epidemiology)
Ayas, Najib
(public health and safety consequences of sleep apnea and sleep deprivation)
Barbic, Skye
(Occupational therapy; Rehabilitation medicine; assessment; community integration; health and well-being; Implementation Science; Individual Placement Support; measurement; Mental Health and Society; mental health; metrology; Patient Engagement; Rasch Measurement Theory; recovery; Supported Employment; youth)
Beristain, Alexander Guillermo
(Healthy Starts; cellular and molecular processes that direct trophoblast cell biology in early placental development; Examining the A Disintegrin And Metalloproteinase (ADAM) family in trophoblast biology; Examining the effects of obesity-associated inflammation on the maternal-fetal interface; Identifying gene expression differences in subpopulations of trophoblasts in normal and pathological pregnancies )
Black, Peter
(Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms (especially equality rights); Canadian human rights legislation )
Blanke, Philipp
Blydt-Hansen, Tom
(Childhood Diseases; Pediatric kidney transplant; Injury phenotype; Rejection; Biomarkers; Metabolomics; Chemokines)
Boyd, Lara
(Neurosciences, biological and chemical aspects; Neurosciences, medical and physiological and health aspects; Physical therapy; Rehabilitation medicine; Learning; Learning and Memory; Motor System; Motor learning; Neurophysiology; Physiology; Plasticity / Neuronal Regeneration; stroke)
Boyd, Jade
Brauer, Michael
(Environmental and occupational health and safety; Health sciences; Public and population health; air pollution; built environment; Community Health / Public Health; environmental health; environmental epidemiology; healthy cities; remote sensing)
Brigham, Emily
(Asthma; COPD)
Brubacher, Jeffrey
(drugs and driving, alcohol impaired driving, road safety )
Brumme, Chanson
Brunham, Liam
(Medical, health and life sciences; Lipids; Genetics; Pharmacogenomics; Cardiovascular diseases)
Brussoni, Mariana
(Developmental psychology; Psychosocial, sociocultural and behavioral determinants of health; Population health interventions; injury prevention; Children's outdoor play; Risky play; Parenting; health behaviour change; Implementation Science)
Bryan, Stirling
(Economics of health care, policy, from UK)
Camp, Pat
(Physical therapy; Rehabilitation medicine)
Carleton, Bruce
(Pediatrics, clinical pharmacology, outcomes research, drug policy evaluation, health services research, drug safety and adverse drug reactions)
Carlsten, Christopher
(Environment and Respiratory Diseases)
Cembrowski, Mark Steven
(Molecular neuroscience; Mathematical modelling and simulation; Mechanisms of memory in the brain; Anxiety; Big Data; Bioinformatics; Cell types; Computation; CRISPR-Cas9; Fear; Genetics; modeling; Neural circuits; neuroscience; Neuroscience of memory; PTSD; RNAseq)
Pages
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
Development of biomarkers for colorectal cancer : transverse colon primary tumor location and circulating tumor DNA for molecular residual disease
Cognitive function in people with rheumatoid arthritis
Design and evaluation of a device to prevent instrument drops during surgery
Airway epithelial responses to models of SARS-CoV-2
Induction of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) causes resistance to trail-mediated cell death in bladder cancer
Assessing variability in ventilation defect percent using hyperpolarized xenon-129 magnetic resonance imaging in children and young people with cystic fibrosis
Evaluation of anti-pertussis immunogenicity in infants and children after immunization in pregnancy with tetanus-diphtheria-acellular pertussis vaccine
Validity and reliability of a food frequency questionnaire for the characterization of usual dietary intake of toddlers
Identification and evaluation of potential candidate antigens for vaccine development against Klebsiella pneumoniae
Evaluating the ability of bioengineered microbes to reduce intestinal inflammation in the SHIP-deficient mouse model of Crohn’s disease-like ileitis
An assessment of the public and out-of-pocket costs associated with the treatment of fibular hemimelia in the pediatric population of British Columbia
An evaluation of the uptake of community drug checking services and its effect on risk reduction practices in British Columbia
Exploring the association of executive functioning with health-related quality of life at baseline among adults with subcortical ischemic vascular cognitive impairment
Estimating the size of the gay, bisexual and other men who have sex with men population and identifying syndemic factors and their effect on HIV sexual risk behaviour
A novel protein-protein interaction between SARS-CoV-2 NSP15 and keratin
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Experimental Medicine (PhD)
Further Information
Specialization
Experimental Medicine
Experimental Medicine offers research opportunities in the following specialties: cardiology, cancer biology, dermatology, gastroenterology, hematology/oncology, infectious diseases, molecular medicine, nephrology, neurology, and respiratory medicine. All these fields can involve patients and/or experimental animal models.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/experimental-medicine
Program Website
https://exp.med.ubc.ca/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Medicine
Academic Unit
Experimental Medicine Program
Program Identifier
VGMMSC-QB
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for May 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
May 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 May 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
15 December 2024
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 May 2025
International Applicant Deadline
15 April 2025
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Pinhao Xiang
I really like the campus academic environment. Here, I have an opportunity to learn about cutting-edge knowledge in many medical fields and discover my passions. I also really like the libraries at UBC. The library is very resourceful and supports my research by allowing me to access all high-...
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver