Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-arts-ancient-culture-religion-ethnicity

Master of Arts in Ancient Culture, Religion and Ethnicity (MA)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Arts in Ancient Culture, Religion and Ethnicity (MA)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Department of Ancient Mediterranean and Near Eastern Studies offers a unique interdisciplinary Master's program that allows students to develop a customized program specializing in any topic within the scope of the ancient Mediterranean and Near East from the Bronze Age to Late Antiquity through the completion of coursework and a thesis. Students choose from a broad range of coursework in the archaeology and material culture, religion and mythology, literature and ancient languages, and history and cultures of the ancient Mediterranean and Near East. In the second year of the program, students write a thesis under the supervision of a faculty member. The degree balances research with fieldwork to best prepare students for a career in archaeology.
The program is suitable students with a broad background in the humanities, with an undergraduate degree that included significant coursework in our areas of specialization. It is also suitable for those who wish to undertake more advanced coursework, including ancient language training, in preparation for a doctoral program in Classics, Classical or Near Eastern Archaeology, or Religious Studies.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The MA in Ancient Culture, Religion and Ethnicity takes full advantage of the unique blend of disciplines in our Department and offers students the opportunity to engage in a broad range of coursework and to pursue interdisciplinary research on the material culture, religious beliefs, languages and histories of the ancient Mediterranean and Near East. We have sixteen full-time faculty specializing in the archaeology of the Bronze Age Eastern Mediterranean, Mesopotamia, Greek material culture, and the Roman provinces; in Hebrew Bible Studies, Jewish Studies, Christian origins, and New Testament Studies; in Greek literature and philosophy, Latin literature and translation, Greek and Roman history, Roman law, Greek and Roman theatre, and Greek mythology. Our faculty are all interdisciplinary researchers whose work regularly engages with other disciplines. There are also archaeological fieldwork opportunities for graduate students across Europe and the Mediterranean, including in Romania, Cyprus, and Israel.
Program Structure
The M.A. program requires 24 credits of coursework and the writing of an MA thesis worth 6 credits (AMNE 599). The 24 credits of coursework must include AMNE 500, and 18 must be numbered 500 or higher. The remaining 6 credits may, at the discretion of the program, be at the 300- or 400-level.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Arts
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Thesis required
Academic Unit
Department of Ancient Mediterranean and Near Eastern Studies
Specialization
Ancient Culture, Religion and Ethnicity
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.5
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Course Requirements
It is highly recommended that students have completed the equivalent of two years' of study in one of Ancient Greek, Biblical Hebrew, or Latin prior to commencing the program.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
02 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
03 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
17 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
18 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
03 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
17 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
18 January 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Arts in Ancient Culture, Religion and Ethnicity (MA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Highlights
Kalavasos and Maroni Built Environments Project (KAMBE). Faculty: Kevin Fisher.
The Apulum Roman Villas Project. Faculty: Matthew McCarty.
Excavations at Bestansur, Iraqi Kurdistan. Faculty: Lisa Cooper.
From Stone to Screen, a graduate student-led initiative to digitize the Department’s squeeze collection and other artefacts. There are still opportunities for new students to work with the collections. Contact: Lisa Cooper.
Computational Research on the Ancient Near East (CRANE). Faculty: Kevin Fisher.
Ancient Commentator Series. Faculty: Michael Griffin.
Research Focus
We have faculty focusing on aspects of gender, law, economy, politics, urbanism, performance, ethnicity, and social status in ancient Near Eastern, Greek, and Roman civilization. Many of our faculty are interested in historiography, receptions of the ancient world, and digital approaches to the past. Our research strengths in Religious Studies include Hebrew Bible studies, Jewish studies, and early Christian history and literature. In archaeology, our faculty specialize in the material culture of Greater Mesopotamia, the Bronze Age Mediterranean, Palestine, Sicily, and the Roman Empire. In Classical Studies, our strengths include Greek and Roman culture, Greek philosophy, Greek and Latin literature (especially drama and poetry), and Greek mythology. Additionally, our faculty have expertise in a large range of ancient languages and we are offer rigorous training in Ancient Greek, Latin, Biblical Hebrew, and Classical Arabic as well as introductory courses in Akkadian, Middle Egyptian, and Coptic.
Program Components
MA students complete coursework and a thesis. Students may also participate in summer field schools for credit. Students with deficiencies in ancient language study also complete undergraduate courses in Ancient Greek, Biblical Hebrew, Latin, and/or ancient Near Eastern languages (Akkadian, Coptic, Middle Egyptian). Students must demonstrate proficiency in one of French, German, Italian, or Spanish, usually through a translation exam or additional coursework.
Research Facilities
Our students have access to work space in the Graduate Reading Room with exclusive access to a library of ancient texts and seminal scholarship relating to Ancient Mediterranean and Near Eastern Studies and a computer lab for research and teaching equipped with eight powerful desktop PC computers with dual monitors and a variety of software packages (including ArcGIS, Adobe Creative Suite and Agisoft Photoscan) as well as a 3D printer.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
All of our Master's students are funded. A typical minimum funding package for MA students is around $18,000 (domestic) or $21,000 per year for 20 months from a combination of Teaching Assistantships and fellowships. Most students receive additional funding from external scholarship competitions and Research Assistantship opportunities in the department, with the most successful students receiving over $30,000 per year. In addition, the Department provides support for student travel and research abroad.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
Our MA students have gone on to study at outstanding universities such as McGill, University of Toronto, Yale, UC-Berkeley, Stanford, and Oxford. Others have had career success in the public and private sectors as teachers, university administrators, translators, creative professionals, bankers, and more.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Arts in Ancient Culture, Religion and Ethnicity (MA). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
25
17
21
12
14
Offers
9
3
6
3
4
New Registrations
3
2
3
3
2
Total Enrolment
7
6
8
9
8
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
89%
based on 11 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 11 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.7 years and the maximum time is 6.15 years with an average of
2.54 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Arts in Ancient Culture, Religion and Ethnicity (MA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Bablitz, Leanne
(Roman history, Roman law, Roman courtrooms, , Roman social history and law, Roman topography, Roman legal procedure)
Cooper, Elisabeth
(Archaeology of greater Mesopotamia)
Daniels, Megan
(Classical religion; Archaeology of Greece and the broader eastern Mediterranean; Late Bronze Age to Hellenistic Period; Ancient religion, sanctuaries, votive objects; Cross-cultural interaction; Ancient economies and trade; Divine kingship; Digital/data science approaches to the ancient world, particularly ancient religion; Migration and mobility across Eurasia; Phoenician culture; Ceramic analysis)
De Angelis, Franco
(Ancient Greek world history, environment, urbanism, developmnet of societies, colonization, economics, ancient literature)
Fisher, Kevin
(Prehistoric archaeology; Anthropology; Archaeological theory; Archaeometry; Archeological Data Analysis; Archeological Excavation Methods and Techniques; architecture; built environments; digital archaeology; Dynamics of Social Transformations; Mediterranean archaeology; Near Eastern archaeology; power; Social Life / Societal Life; social interaction; Urban Spaces and Urbanity; urbanism)
Gardner, Gregg
(Judaism, Rabbinic Literature, Rabbinic Judaism, Mishnah, Talmud, Jewish Studies, Jewish Law, Jewish Ethics, Charity, Jewish Ethics, Archaeology of Israel, Archaeology and Hebrew Bible, Archaeology of Jerusalemn )
Griffin, Michael
(Greek philosophy, Ancient philosophy, Plato, Aristotle, Plotinus, Proclus, Neoplatonism, Ancient logic )
Huemoeller, Katharine
(Classical Greek and Ancient Rome history; Classical archaeology; Classical linguistics; Religion and religious studies; Ancient law (in theory and in practice); Documentary texts; gender and sexuality; Non-urban life in antiquity; Roman social history; Slavery (ancient and comparative))
Marshall, Toph
(Cinema studies; Classical Greek and Ancient Rome history; Classical archaeology; Classical linguistics; Film, television and digital media; Religion and religious studies; Literary or Artistic Works Analysis; Performance and Theatrical Productions)
McCarty, Matthew
(archaeology and art of the Roman Empire and Iron Age Europe/North Africa; ancient religion and ritual practice; interplays between texts, practices, and objects; imperialism, colonialism, and identity in the ancient world; interdisciplinary, cross-cultural, comparative (especially comparison with Qin/Han China), and theoretical approaches; historiography of archaeology)
McElduff, Siobhan
(Ancient and modern translation, history of the book)
Milstein, Sara
(Classical Greek and Ancient Rome history; Classical archaeology; Classical linguistics; Religion and religious studies; biblical and cuneiform law; Hebrew Bible and Near Eastern Studies; History of Major Eras, Great Civilisations or Geographical Corpuses; literary history of the Bible; Literary or Artistic Works Analysis; Mesopotamian literature; Near Eastern scribal culture; Religious Contexts)
Philbrick, Rachel
(Latin Poetry, Especially Epic and Elegy, Textual authority and credibility, Genre and intertextuality, Narratology, Geography and Mapping, as Well as Narratives of Boundaries, Utopias, and the Unknown)
Schneider, Thomas
(Egyptian history and phonoly)
Soon, Isaac
(Early Christianity and New Testament)
Yoo, Philip
Yoon, Florence
(heralds and the representation of the absent; anonymity and naming, particularly in Greek Tragedy; props and silent characters in Greek drama)
Related Programs
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Classics (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Religious Studies (PhD)
Master of Arts in Classical and Near Eastern Archaeology (MA)
Master of Arts in Classics (MA)
Master of Arts in Religious Studies (MA)
Further Information
Specialization
Ancient Culture, Religion and Ethnicity
The focus of Ancient Culture, Religion and Ethnicity is on the history, literature, archaeology and religious traditions of the ancient Mediterranean. Research strengths include:
Mediterranean and Near Eastern Archaeology,
Hebrew Bible Studies,
Early Christianity and Judaism,
Languages and Literature of Greece, Rome and the Near East,
Reception Studies,
Digital Humanities, and
Cultural History.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/ancient-culture-religion-and-ethnicity
Program Website
https://amne.ubc.ca/graduate/masters-programs/ancient-culture-religion-and-ethnicity/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Arts
Academic Unit
Department of Ancient Mediterranean and Near Eastern Studies
Program Identifier
VGMMAA-AN
Classification
Classical Greek and Ancient Rome history
Classical archaeology
Religion and religious studies
Classical religion
Classical linguistics
Greek and roman literatures
Classical literatures
Classical philosophy (Greek, Latin, Medieval)
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
02 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
03 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
03 January 2025
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubccnrs/
https://www.instagram.com/ubccnrs/
https://twitter.com/cnersubc/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Curious about UBC for grad school?
Our community of scholars is one of the world’s finest, committed to discovering and sharing knowledge, and to tackling the challenges that face our world.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC