Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-educational-technology

Master of Educational Technology (MET)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Educational Technology (MET)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Master of Educational Technology (MET) program offers a fully online graduate degree that explores the potential use and impact of learning technologies in a variety of contexts. UBC is an internationally-recognized leader in distributed education, and the Faculty members work on the leading edge of curriculum design and technology integration.
The master's program consists of ten 3-credit courses and provides an in-depth opportunity for students to interact online with colleagues around the globe who are working in technology-supported learning environments. Students in the master's program must complete all four required core courses and six electives.
This innovative program provides an excellent environment in which to learn and engage in:
Teaching/Instruction using Learning Technologies
Planning and Management of Learning Technologies
Design and Development of Learning Technologies
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The MET program offers a unique opportunity to master the theory, strategy and planning competencies required for greater leadership and responsibility in the design and implementation of emerging learning technologies. This course-based graduate degree is fully online and students can take the courses in whatever order and pace works best.  The vast majority of MET students are mid-career professionals across a variety of education sectors internationally, so the value of the peer learning experience is exceptional.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Education
Mode of delivery
Online / Distance (100%)
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Office of Research in Education
Specialization
Educational Technology
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 90
Reading
22
Writing
22
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
2) Meet Deadlines
Application open dates and deadlines for an upcoming intake have not yet been configured in the admissions system. Please check back later.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Course-based programs do not have a thesis component. While they may assign academic advisors to students, they do
not
require applicants to reach out to individual professors / faculty members to seek commitment as their thesis supervisor. Please do not contact faculty members for the purposes of thesis supervision if you are applying to this program.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$116.25
Tuition *
Tuition per credit
$606.97
$996.27
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
Vary
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Program Funding Packages
No funding available.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
The MET curriculum is designed for educators at all levels and in diverse contexts:
K-12 teachers
college and university educators
adult/industry educators
course designers
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Educational Technology (MET). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
144
143
225
218
142
Offers
79
98
168
155
91
New Registrations
64
86
152
134
82
Total Enrolment
272
321
325
256
223
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
87%
based on 337 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 369 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 0.68 years and the maximum time is 6.83 years with an average of
2.49 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Graduate Certificate in Educational Technology (GCET)
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Master of Education, Master of Arts in Education (MEd, MA)
Further Information
Specialization
Educational Technology
Educational Technology educates professionals in the use and impact of digital learning technologies and provides a unique opportunity to study and engage in: technology-supported instruction, planning and management of learning technologies and eLearning, design and development of digital learning technologies and environments, digital literacy and digital culture in formal and informal learning contexts.
Faculty work on the leading edge of curriculum design and technology integration, digital culture, youth culture, digital literacy, gaming, and interface design. Our courses examine digital learning and culture from a wide range of perspectives, including environmental and sustainability education, Indigenous learning frameworks, and inclusive education.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/educational-technology
Program Website
https://met.ubc.ca/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Education
Academic Unit
Office of Research in Education
Program Identifier
VGMMET
Classification
Educational technology and computing
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://twitter.com/UBCMET/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Start calling Vancouver “Home”
The metropolitan area is known for its diversity and UBC is one of the most international universities in Canada. This multicultural community means we have a wide range of restaurants, grocery stores, and events to provide a sense of belonging.