Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-management

Master of Management (MM)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Management (MM)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
The Master of Management is not administered by the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies. Please check the
Sauder School of Business
website for admission requirements, deadlines and application procedure.
Overview
Developed to address the evolving needs of today’s most innovative employers, the Master of Management (MM) curriculum provides you with a vital grounding in a broad spectrum of business and management disciplines, from accounting to finance and marketing to strategic management. Combined with the career development throughout the program, you will graduate with the competitive edge you need when applying for your dream job.
The 9-month, full-time UBC MM offered by UBC Sauder's Robert H. Lee Graduate School runs annually from August to the end of May.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The UBC Master of Management (MM) is designed for recent graduates with a Bachelor's degree in a non-business discipline. Offered by UBC Sauder's Robert H. Lee Graduate School, the UBC MM gives students an opportunity to learn the fundamental principles of business and management, from accounting to strategic management to finance to marketing, in a collaborative, creative environment. In just 9 months of study, the UBC MM allows students to accelerate their career with a degree designed for today’s business world.
A UBC MM is not only the key to fast-tracking your career – it’s also the #1 Master of Management in all of North America and among the Top 60 in the world, as ranked by the prestigious Financial Times (2018), meaning your degree will be recognized worldwide.
The 3-month Master of Management Community Business Project (CBP) is a 1.5 credit course that enables UBC MM students to apply their newly-acquired business skills by working on a live business project for a not-for-profit or social enterprise in British Columbia.
Students are able to add valuable consulting experience on their resume, as well as providing local organizations with much needed resources and support for new projects.  Past projects include proposing an international market expansion strategy, developing a business plan for a sustainable food business, and providing recommendations for increasing employee engagement for the Vancouver General Hospital and UBC Hospital Foundation.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Commerce and Business Administration
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Robert H. Lee Graduate School
Specialization
Business Administration
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $32,691.30 | International: $55,803.80
School
Sauder School of Business
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Research Information
Program Components
We offer an in-house consulting project, the 3-month Community Business Project, as part of the program.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$160.25
$160.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$10,897.09
$18,601.25
Program Fee
$32,691.27
$55,803.75
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$5000.00
$5000.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Program Funding Packages
At UBC Sauder, our entrance scholarships are based on merit, going to candidates who display an outstanding combination of talent, drive, professional potential and academic achievement. We take a merit-based holistic view of what each talented candidate brings into the program.   Applicants are automatically considered for every applicable scholarship upon submission, and are assessed on a number of factors, including (but not limited to) academic achievement, business drive, application essays.
For more information about our entrance scholarships and financial assistance, please visit our
webpage
.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
The 9-month Master of Management is designed to prepare students for employment in the public or private sector, or to pursue further studies in another graduate field of study. Recent graduates have taken positions at SAP, Accenture, Best Buy, Provincial Health Services Authority and numerous other organizations.
Common job titles after the program include Business Coordinator, Research Analyst, Customer Engagement Specialist, and People Solutions Coordinator.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Management (MM). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
426
384
369
413
235
Offers
220
198
163
215
160
New Registrations
162
148
122
147
126
Total Enrolment
168
157
141
162
128
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
99%
based on 318 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 419 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 0.68 years and the maximum time is 5.47 years with an average of
0.84 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Master of Business Analytics (MBAN)
Professional Master of Business Administration (PMBA)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration in Accounting (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration in Finance (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration in Management Information Systems (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration in Management Science (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration in Marketing and Behavioural Science (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration in Organizational Behaviour (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration in Strategy and Business Economics (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration in Transportation and Logistics (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration in Urban Land Economics (PhD)
Master of Science in Business Administration in Finance (MSCB)
Master of Science in Business Administration in Management Information Systems (MSCB)
Master of Science in Business Administration in Transportation and Logistics (MSCB)
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Master of Management (MM)
Further Information
Specialization
Business Administration
The 9-month Master of Management (MM) at UBC Sauder's Robert H. Lee Graduate School is for university graduates with non-business undergraduate degrees. Whatever your degree - from math to music - this is an opportunity to gain the business skills needed to impress today's employers and gain an edge in a competitive job market.
The 12-month UBC Master in Business Analytics (MBAN) is about much more than technical know-how. It captures the full analytics spectrum, including data management, data analytics, and decision analytics. You will learn how to make strategically sound recommendations and data-driven business decisions—exactly what cutting-edge companies around the world need.
The 16-month, full-time Master of Business Administration (MBA) program at UBC Sauder's Robert H. Lee Graduate School is an opportunity for high-achieving, ambitious professionals to take their career to the next level.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-commerce-and-business-administration/professional-masters-degrees/master-management
Program Website
https://www.sauder.ubc.ca/programs/masters-degrees/ubc-mm
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Commerce and Business Administration
Academic Unit
Robert H. Lee Graduate School
Classification
Economics and business administration
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/SauderSchool/
https://twitter.com/UBCSauderSchool
https://www.youtube.com/user/sauderschoolUBC
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
The city and the sea
Take a break from studying with opportunities at your fingertips. Whether you want to settle down in a café or take your research outdoors, we have a place for you.