Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-science-craniofacial-science

Master of Science in Craniofacial Science (MSc)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Science in Craniofacial Science (MSc)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Faculty of Dentistry offers advanced study leading to the MSc in Craniofacial Science through one of the following areas of study:
Research in Population Health will explore the complex interactions (social, cultural, environmental) that affect the oral health of individuals, communities and populations.
Oral health related clinical research includes both interventional and observational studies focusing on the following: disease prevention, diagnosis, risk, treatment, prognosis and health care.
Basic science research in the areas of biomaterials, cell biology, developmental biology, microbiology and molecular biology is available.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Dentistry
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Thesis required
Academic Unit
Faculty of Dentistry
Specialization
Craniofacial Science
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 93
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.5
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
Students admitted to the M.Sc. degree program normally possess a bachelor's degree in one of the major recognized fields of dentistry or a related area.
2) Meet Deadlines
Application open dates and deadlines for an upcoming intake have not yet been configured in the admissions system. Please check back later.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Craniofacial Science (MSc)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Science in Craniofacial Science (MSc). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
36
39
38
24
19
Offers
4
7
13
8
5
New Registrations
4
6
9
8
3
Total Enrolment
17
21
18
12
8
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
91%
based on 11 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 15 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.36 years and the maximum time is 3.29 years with an average of
2.28 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Craniofacial Science (MSc)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Aleksejuniene, Jolanta
(Theory-based behavioural management, Evidence-based Practice, Caries risk assessment, ePortfolio learning, Oral Epidemiology)
Almeida, Fernanda
(Dentistry and oral health; Sleep and Sleep Disorders; craniofacial characteristics in sleep apnea; diagnosis; edentulism; oral appliances for snoring and sleep apnea; sleep apnea)
Bromme, Dieter
(Lysosomal proteases, centre for blood research )
Brondani, Mario
(Dentistry and oral health; Community Health / Public Health; Dental Health; social determinants of health; Health Policies; Quality of Life and Aging; Adult Education and Continuing Education; Epidemiology; Access to care; Dental Education; Dental Geriatrics; Dental Public Health; Epidemiological data; Health Policy; Qualitative research)
Bryant, Ross
(Prosthodontics, Geriatrics, Patient-based assessments, Oral implants, Jawbone densitometry)
Carvalho, Rick
(Other health sciences, n.e.c.; Biomaterials; materials interfaces; bonding to hard tissues; materials development)
Coil, Jeffrey Martin
(Pulp Biology, Endodontic Materials)
Donnelly, Leeann
(Oral Malodor, Special Care Populations, Community Oral Health Education and Program Development)
Ford, Nancy
(Medical physics; Medical biotechnology diagnostics (including biosensors); Dental materials and equipment; micro-computed tomography; physiological gating; contrast agents; models of respiratory disease; image-based measurements; dental imaging; x-ray imaging)
Gebril, Mohamed
Graf, Daniel
(Bone, skin and cartilage science; Cell differentiation, proliferation and death; Developmental genetics (including sex determination); Developmental and degenerative pathologies associated with cartilage, bone, and teeth)
Grazziotin Soares, Renata
(Dentistry and oral health; Endodontics - materials and techniques, digital technologies, micro-CT and synchrotron images; Dental Education)
Hakkinen, Lari
(Dentistry and oral health; Cell signaling; Cell therapy; Cell to cell communication; Connective Tissue; Extracellular matrix; Fibroblasts, MSC; Oral mucosa and skin; Tissue regeneration; Wound Healing)
Hieawy, Ahmed
(Endodontics; Dental Trauma; Endodontic Treatment Outcome; Endodontic Microsurgery; Endodontic Instrumentation; Pediatric Endodontics; Endodontic Treatment for Medically Compromised Patients)
Kim, Hugh
(platelet biochemistry)
Larjava, Hannu
(Wound healing)
Laronde, Denise
(Cancer; oral cancer screening; malignant transformation; early detection; oral premalignant lesions)
MacDonald, David
(Systematic review, Diagnostic radiology, particularly of the Hong Kong Chinese)
Macdougall, Mary
(molecular mechanisms associated with epithelial mesenchymal interactions, identification of critical signaling pathways, matrix formation and biomineralization)
Mathu-Muju, Kavita
(Public Health Dentistry, Clinical Pediatric Dentistry)
Matthew, Ian
(Dental Education, biomaterials; implantology)
Overall, Christopher Mark
(Blood research, antiviral immunity)
Pigozzo Manso, Adriana
(Dentistry and oral health; Color shade in resin composite; Dental adhesive interfaces; Resin dentin bond stability)
Pliska, Benjamin
(Dentistry and oral health; Sleep and Sleep Disorders; Oro-Dental Disorders; Facial growth and development; sleep medicine)
Poh, Catherine
(Optical Techniques and oral precancer management)
Pages
1
2
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
The antibacterial effect of bioceramic root canal sealers against multispecies dental biofilm in a novel ex vivo model
Professionally guided oral self-care training for young orthodontic patients
Physico-chemical and mechanical properties of 3D printed, milled, and conventional polymers for interim dental restoration
Combined torsional and cyclic fatigue resistance of rotary endodontic files
Outcome analysis of endodontic microsurgery in UBC’s graduate endodontics program
Minimally instrumented endodontic protocol with multisonic irrigation : an assessment of treatment outcome
Feasibility and effectiveness of remote dental education to promote child dental health  assisted by child caregivers of South-East Asian ancestry
Kinetics of silanization and its effects on the bond strength of resin cement to glass and synthetic glass-matrix ceramics
Snoring as a predictor of treatment outcomes in oral appliance therapy for sleep apnea patients
Investigating the diagnostic accuracy of the 2017 periodontal classification in Canada
The effects of simulated arch constriction on upper airway function during sleep
Evaluating the effectiveness of motion vs still-image videos teaching origami : implications for e-learning in pre-clinical dental education
Primary caregiver satisfaction with virtual health versus in-person consultations for full mouth rehabilitation in children
Covid-19 impact on dental emergencies at BC Children’s Hospital
A comparison of in-person versus virtual health consultations for full mouth rehabilitation in pediatric dental patients
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Craniofacial Science (PhD)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Craniofacial Science and Diploma in Endodontics (PhD/Dip. Endodontics)
Doctor of Philosophy in Craniofacial Science and Diploma in Orthodontics (PhD/Dip. Orthodontics)
Doctor of Philosophy in Craniofacial Science and Diploma in Pediatric Dentistry (PhD/Dip. Pediatric Dentistry)
Doctor of Philosophy in Craniofacial Science and Diploma in Periodontics (PhD/Dip. Periodontics)
Doctor of Philosophy in Craniofacial Science and Diploma in Prosthodontics (PhD/Dip. Prosthodontics)
Master of Science in Craniofacial Science and Diploma in Endodontics (MSc/Dip. Endodontics)
Master of Science in Craniofacial Science and Diploma in Orthodontics (MSc/Dip. Orthodontics)
Master of Science in Craniofacial Science and Diploma in Pediatric Dentristy (MSc/Dip. Pediatric Dentistry)
Master of Science in Craniofacial Science and Diploma in Periodontics (MSc/Dip. Periodontics)
Master of Science in Craniofacial Science and Diploma in Prosthodontics (MSc/Dip. Prosthodontics)
Further Information
Specialization
Craniofacial Science
Craniofacial Science covers the following areas of study:
Research in Population Health explores the complex interactions (social, cultural, environmental) that affect the oral health of individuals, communities and populations.
Oral health related clinical research includes both interventional and observational studies focusing on the following: disease prevention, diagnosis, risk, treatment, prognosis and health care.
Basic science research in the areas of biomaterials, cell biology, developmental biology, microbiology and molecular biology is available.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/craniofacial-science
Program Website
https://www.dentistry.ubc.ca/msc/about-the-program/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Dentistry
Academic Unit
Faculty of Dentistry
Program Identifier
VGMMSC-FT
Classification
Dentistry and oral health
Oral and maxillofacial surgery
Orthodontics and dentofacial orthopedics
Program Website
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://twitter.com/ubcdentistry/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Considering Vancouver as your next home?
This city won’t disappoint. It has it all: sea, parks, mountains, beaches and all four seasons, including beautiful summers and mild, wet winters with snow.
Learn more about life in Vancouver