Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-archival-studies

Master of Archival Studies (MAS)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Archival Studies (MAS)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
With an international reputation for intellectual leadership and strong local connections with communities and professionals, the MAS program provides an inspiring space to study archival science and develop professional skills. Records and archives play a vital role in society and students in this program will engage critically and creatively with emerging records issues, while developing the skills required to ensure that records are effectively created, organized, managed and preserved.
Program content focuses on:
Nature of records and archives
Managing records from creation to preservation
Records systems and archival systems
Selection of records and their acquisition in archives
Intellectual control of records and archives and provision of access
Records, archives and the law
Ethical and professional responsibilities
History of record-keeping and archives
Archives, recordkeeping and social justice
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
In 1981 the Master of Archival Studies program was created at UBC making it the first graduate program in archival studies in North America.
Home to faculty who are internationally recognized for their contributions to research and teaching on digital preservation, computational archival science, and personal recordkeeping. The School offers students unique opportunities to engage in international research projects in this discipline.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Arts
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Options
Academic Unit
School of Information
Specialization
Archival Studies
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,640.69 | International: $11,656.10
School
School of Information
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.5
Reading
7.0
Writing
7.0
Speaking
7.0
Listening
7.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
01 February 2025
Referee Deadline:
01 February 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
01 February 2025
Referee Deadline:
01 February 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Archival Studies (MAS)
This program has an optional thesis component. Decisions on supervision are not made during the program application, but at a later time, e.g. after completion of coursework, for students opting to write a thesis. It is not necessary for applicants to contact faculty members prior to their application.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Highlights
InterPARES is a multi-national, interdisciplinary research project exploring issues concerning digital records and data. Its goal is to generate theoretical and methodological frameworks to develop local, national and international policies, procedures, regulations, standards and legislation, in order to ensure public trust grounded on evidence of good governance, a strong digital economy, and a persistent digital memory. This project is directed by Dr. Luciana Duranti, Professor at the School. See the School’s website for more research areas and opportunities:
https://ischool.ubc.ca/research/
Blockchain and decentralized trust technologies are transforming how records are created, managed and preserved. UBC has launched Canada's first Blockchain and Decentralized Trust Technologies training pathway for graduate students under the direction of School of Information faculty member, Dr. Victoria Lemieux. The Graduate Pathway on Blockchain and Decentralized Trust Technologies is a 12-credit non-degree multidisciplinary, research-intensive training program that augments existing Master's and PhD programs.
Program Components
Experiential Learning: The iSchool is committed to providing students with a variety of learning experiences while they work on their degrees and excels at providing students with a range of opportunities to attain field-based experience. In addition to our successful Co-operative Education Program, the school provides students with options to earn academic credit while attaining valuable real-world experience. ARST 596 provides opportunities for students to earn 3 course credits while working on one or more projects with a professional in the field. For more information, visit the course page
ARST 596
.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,880.23
$3,885.36
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,640.69
$11,656.08
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Supplementary fees (once)
$236.00 Mandatory program fee, student society fee
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
Every year, the iSchool awards more than 30 distinct prizes and scholarships to incoming, continuing and graduating Master’s students. These awards are in addition to bursaries and other funding from the Faculty of Graduate Studies.
International students may be automatically eligible for an International Tuition Award valued at $3,200 per year.
UBC has launched Canada's first Blockchain training pathway for graduate students. The Graduate Pathway on Blockchain and Decentralized Trust Technologies will be a 12-credit non-degree training program that augments existing Master's and PhD programs. Additional funding may be available for students as part of the Blockchain pathway.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
Graduates may find work in such positions as: Archivist; digital archivist; archives curator; archives advisor; manuscripts processing archivist; electronic records archivist; audiovisual archivist; data/digital curator; e-discovery advisor; privacy and information officer; records and information manager; records administrator/specialist; records analyst; records policy and program officer; records/preservation system designer; research officer; security specialist; and others.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Archival Studies (MAS). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
38
28
60
39
28
Offers
23
12
16
12
20
New Registrations
13
9
10
6
11
Total Enrolment
26
23
18
18
25
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
96%
based on 54 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 29 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 0.33 years and the maximum time is 7.55 years with an average of
2.11 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Archival Studies (MAS)
This program has an optional thesis component. Decisions on supervision are not made during the program application, but at a later time, e.g. after completion of coursework, for students opting to write a thesis. It is not necessary for applicants to contact faculty members prior to their application.
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Douglas, Jennifer
(Personal recordkeeping and archives; Community archives; Person-centred archival theory and practices; Grief and recordkeeping and archives; Emotions and recordkeeping and archives; Archival arrangement and description)
Lemieux, Victoria
(Archival, repository and related studies; Records and information management (except business records and information management); Digital humanities; Blockchain technology and Ecosystems; Trust and Records; Privacy; security; Risk management; Transparency and the public interest (in public sector and financial contexts))
Shaffer, Elizabeth
(intersections of race, gender, and digital infrastructures and technologies)
Sample Thesis Submissions
"So that they might be useful in the future" : exploring the futurity of international archival initiatives
Related Programs
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Library, Archival and Information Studies (PhD)
Master of Archival Studies and Master of Library and Information Studies (MASLIS)
Master of Arts in Children's Literature (MA)
Master of Library and Information Studies (MLIS)
Further Information
Specialization
Archival Studies
Archival work is related to that of many other disciplines, including history, political science, business administration, and sociology.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/archival-studies
Program Website
https://ischool.ubc.ca/graduate/masters-programs/master-of-archival-studies/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Arts
Academic Unit
School of Information
Program Identifier
VGMMAS
Classification
Archival, repository and related studies
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
15 January 2025
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/UBCiSchool/
https://twitter.com/ubcischool/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Experience the colours of Vancouver
Great academic programs, great location: the distinct seasons and mild climate are among the reasons why graduate students choose to study here -- from the autumn leaves to cherry blossoms, witness the many colours Vancouver has to offer.