Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-education-modern-languages-education

Master of Education in Modern Languages Education (MEd)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Education in Modern Languages Education (MEd)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The MEd degree is designed as a practitioner's degree, for students who wish to acquire the knowledge, skills and experience necessary to work in a professional field. As a professional degree, the MEd is intended for students who wish, upon graduation, to assume positions of leadership in a practical setting or positions requiring more advanced study than that available at the bachelor's level. The MEd degree is a course-based degree (no thesis required).
The MEd in Modern Languages is a specialized, individualized and interdisciplinary graduate program in which students can focus on French as a Second or Additional Language education, Asia-Pacific or modern language education in other languages, or Indigenous language education and revitalization.
MLED graduate students gain experience and understanding in such areas as: current issues in second language theory and practice, second language acquisition, second language reading and writing, language socialization, language and identity, bi-/multilingual pedagogies and multimodalities, language policy and planning, second language assessment, intercultural education, technology integration in language education, discourse analysis, critical applied linguistics, and research methods.
Teachers in French immersion, core and intensive French, and francophone programs have the option of completing an online cohort MEd taught entirely in French. The focus is on teachers’ specific interests related to French language teaching and includes a three-week course delivered face-to-face in Montreal. Online courses are offered synchronously between September and June via web-conferencing. For information about this specific program please visit:
https://pdce.educ.ubc.ca/med_french/
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The program faculty have expertise in second/additional language teaching, applied linguistics, critical applied linguistics, discourse analysis, intercultural education, second language acquisition and socialization, content-based language education, pedagogical and functional grammar, second language reading and writing, issues of language and identity, language in education, multilingual literacies, language policy, and language learning and use in immigrant and international communities.
Although there are formal course requirements for the advanced degrees, graduate students are encouraged, with the aim of individualizing each program of studies, to take graduate courses in other departments in the Faculty of Education as well as in Linguistics and other Language Departments, Anthropology/Sociology, Psychology, and other disciplines Linguistics in the Faculty of Arts. This allows students to individually tailor their program of studies according to their interests.
On-campus MEd programs in the Department can be pursued either full time or part time.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Education
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Options
Academic Unit
Department of Language & Literacy Education
Specialization
Modern Languages Education
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $7,885.56 | International: $16,223.20
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
Assessments for M.Ed. applicants are based on:
undergraduate credits (3rd and 4th level coursework) prescribed by the Department as prerequisite to the program.
minimum GPA of 76% average
In cases where applicants have also completed graduate level coursework toward a master’s or doctoral level program, or as an unclassified student, this coursework is assessed separately.
A considerably higher standing may be required because of competitive demand.
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 92
Reading
22
Writing
22
Speaking
22
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.5
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
an approved Bachelor’s degree and, for K-12 teachers, one year of teacher education;* OR
a 5-year Bachelor’s degree in Education; OR
a 4-year Bachelor’s degree in Education or other appropriate area provided the applicant has completed all the necessary prerequisites listed below.
Holders of 3-year Canadian degrees require a fourth or honours year.
Students applying to the MEd in MLED normally have earned a degree in (an) additional language(s) or second language education, linguistics, or related areas, or have had coursework in these areas. Two years of formal teaching experience is preferred.
Document Requirements
Bachelor’s degree in relevant Educational discipline or other appropriate area with high standing
CV or resume outlining a short summary of relevant professional and academic background.
A well-written 500 word (maximum) Statement of Intent. Be sure to indicate how your previous education, professional experience have prepared you to be successful in the graduate program. State any work you have already done in this area (mention specific skills/techniques you have picked up). Connect your area of interest to work being done in the program (mention specific faculty members and projects).
Three letters of recommendation; at least one reference letter must be an academic reference by a university instructor
Scanned copies all official transcripts (including a key to transcript grades and symbols) and degree certificates from all post-secondary institutions attended outside UBC.
Other Requirements
Applicants who received a degree from a North American university are not required to submit their English test scores. Similarly, applicants who completed their degree outside North America from an institution in which English was the primary language of instruction of the entire university (not just a program) are not required to provide English test scores as part of their application.
Please note that we can only accept your English test scores if the test has been taken within the last 24 months at the time of submission of the application. An official test score report ordered from the testing agency has to be sent to UBC. Acceptable English language proficiency tests for applicants to UBC Grad School are:
TOEFL – Test of English as a Foreign Language, minimum score 580 (paper-based) or 237 (computer based), or new minimum TOEFL score of 92 (with a minimum of 22 for each component).
or
MELAB – Michigan English Language Assessment Battery. Minimum overall score 85.
or
IELTS – International English Language Testing System – Academic. Minimum overall band score 7, with no component less than 6.5.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
05 August 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
06 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
15 December 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
06 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
15 December 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Course-based programs do not have a thesis component. While they may assign academic advisors to students, they do
not
require applicants to reach out to individual professors / faculty members to seek commitment as their thesis supervisor. Please do not contact faculty members for the purposes of thesis supervision if you are applying to this program.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Highlights
Second language teaching methodologies
Applied linguistics
Critical applied linguistics
Intercultural communication
Second language acquisition and socialization
Content-based language education
Pedagogical and functional grammar
Second language writing
Discourse analysis
Issues of language and identity
Language in education
Multilingual literacies
Language policy
Language learning and use in immigrant and international communities
Research Focus
Second language teaching methodologies
Applied linguistics
Critical applied linguistics
Intercultural communication
Second language acquisition and socialization
Content-based language education
Pedagogical and functional grammar
Second language writing
Discourse analysis
Issues of language and identity
Language in education
Multilingual literacies
Language policy
Language learning and use in immigrant and international communities
Program Components
The MEd program in Second/Modern/Indigenous Language Education requires 30 credits of coursework. A minimum of 24 credits must be in graduate-level courses (including 3 credits for the optional graduating project completed as part of LLED 590). A maximum of 6 credits at the undergraduate level in courses numbered 300 to 499 (e.g., TESL Certificate Courses) may be counted toward the requirements of an MEd degree. All master’s students in LLED must take EDUC 500 as a basic research methods requirement.
Effective May 1, 2019, the British Columbia Teacher Qualification Service no longer requires a graduating project as part of an acceptable graduate degree from school teachers wishing to teach and be paid at the level for a master ’s degree (Teacher Qualification Service FAQ and Teacher Qualification Service Policy).
Geographic Restrictions
The MLED program accepts well-qualified students from around the globe into a richly international and multicultural academic community.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$2,628.52
$5,407.74
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$7,885.56
$16,223.22
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$1,500.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Program Funding Packages
Funding in the form of BC Ministry of Education bursaries is available to those enrolling in the online French MEd see
https://pdce.educ.ubc.ca/med_french/
. Funding for the other MEd specializations is not available.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
Integrating research and practice, the graduate programs in Second/Modern/Indigenous language education offer professional development to second language and Indigenous language teachers and prepare leaders in this field. The program allows you to qualify for salary increases and leadership roles within the school system.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Education in Modern Languages Education (MEd). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
8
30
17
27
14
Offers
5
22
5
21
6
New Registrations
3
20
2
18
3
Total Enrolment
23
39
20
39
24
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
92%
based on 40 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 41 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.02 years and the maximum time is 5.12 years with an average of
2.6 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Arts in Modern Languages Education (MA)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Language and Literacy Education (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Teaching English as a Second Language (PhD)
Master of Arts in Literacy Education (MA)
Master of Arts in Teaching English as a Second Language (MA)
Master of Education in Literacy Education (MEd)
Master of Education in Teaching English as a Second Language (MEd)
Further Information
Specialization
Modern Languages Education
Modern Language Education (MLED) examines the social, linguistic, educational, cognitive, cultural, and political processes affecting the teaching, learning, assessment, and use of languages other than English, whether learned as a first, second/additional, or heritage language. The program faculty have special expertise in MLED teaching methods, language assessment, bilingualism, French as a Second Language, French immersion education, multilingual literacies, Asia-Pacific languages in education, heritage language education, technology in language education, language policy, and research on classroom teaching/learning of modern languages.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/modern-language-education
Program Website
https://lled.educ.ubc.ca/programs/mled/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Education
Academic Unit
Department of Language & Literacy Education
Program Identifier
VGMMED-RI
Classification
English language and literacy curriculum, pedagogy and didactics (except ESL, TESOL, LOTE and sign language)
French language and literacy curriculum, pedagogy and didactics (except sign language)
ESL, TESOL, LOTE and sign language curriculum, pedagogy and didactics
Specialized studies in education
Languages
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
05 August 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
International Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://twitter.com/UBC_LLED/
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC3MyApPu3iCga0NMUxqmEyQ/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver