Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-journalism

Master of Journalism (MJ)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Journalism (MJ)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
Journalists have traditionally sought to provide news and information in an accurate, timely and accessible manner to enable the public to make informed decisions. Yet journalism is in flux, with the digital age blurring boundaries of news production and consumption between professionals, citizens and activists. The aim at the UBC Master of Journalism program is to develop graduates who understand the evolving media environment and who are able to use journalistic practices to contribute to meaningful public discourse across all forms of media.
The Master of Journalism (MJ) degree is a full-time, intensive program which includes a summer internship.  It provides students with professional experience and academic grounding to help them prosper in a digital knowledge economy. Students acquire the knowledge and practical skills they need to navigate the challenges and opportunities of the evolving digital media ecosystem, developing skills such as investigative reporting, web, audio, visual and data journalism, immersive storytelling and social media analytics.
Our distinctive approach to journalism education has two components: academic specialization and professional training. Students undertake a program of study focused on an academic area — relevant to a student's background and passions. Paired with the academic teaching is hands-on training in multimedia production alongside experienced professionals.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The Master of Journalism program is a unique, boutique masters program in one of the most diverse and beautiful cities in the world. We are an award-winning program modeled on a small Liberal Arts college with small class sizes and one-on-one attention. Students can tailor the program around their own passions, taking courses that reflect evolving methods, practices and technologies in journalism. Students have contact with professors both in and outside of the classroom, while faculty and staff mentor students on freelancing opportunities, internships and career options.
Faculty members
come from the highest levels of major media organizations. They include recognized leaders in digital journalism and media scholarship who combine professional experience and academic research and scholarship. We pride ourselves on our student-centred approach to teaching, often continuing to mentor them long after they graduate. The program provides graduates with the optimal mix of academic theory and practice to succeed as a journalist.
The School of Journalism's professors having recent and current gigs at the BBC, 60 Minutes, CBC, The Tyee, Vancouver Sun, National Post, The Globe and Mail, and other notable media outlets sold me on applying for and then enrolling in the school.
Katie Hyslop
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Arts
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Options
Academic Unit
School of Journalism, Writing, and Media
Specialization
Journalism
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $8,077.35 | International: $32,429.30
School
School of Journalism, Writing and Media
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
You will need to submit your application through the Online Application system in order to trigger a reference request to your referees. We recommend that you notify your referees as early as possible in your application process to avoid delays in the adjudication of your application.
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 104
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.5
Reading
6.5
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
A degree in any discipline that is academically equivalent to a UBC 4-year Bachelor’s degree.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
31 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
05 February 2025
Referee Deadline:
05 February 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
31 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
05 February 2025
Referee Deadline:
05 February 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Journalism (MJ)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. However, it is not necessary for applicants to contact faculty members prior to their application.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Program Components
In recognition of the importance of combining theory and practice, our students are required to complete a
12-week professional internship
before graduating. Learning on the job is a crucial part of a professional degree program since there are many aspects of journalism that cannot be addressed solely in the classroom.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$2,692.45
$10,809.77
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$8,077.35
$32,429.31
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
Please visit our
tuition and awards
web page for more details.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
Our alumni
have gone on to successful careers at major media organizations around the world. A recent alumni survey shows UBC Journalism graduates have found their training to be instrumental in their career advancement:
86% say UBC Journalism was useful in getting a job
91% credit UBC Journalism for helping them where they are today
83% would recommend UBC Journalism to friends and family
95% are proud to be alums of UBC Journalism
Recent graduates have taken positions at CBC Vancouver, Radio-Canada, CBC Toronto, CBC North, CTV, Al Jazeera English, Sky News Arabia, National Post, National Public Radio (NPR), Toronto Star, The Canadian Press, The Tyee, Hakai Magazine, Daily Hive Vancouver, the Walrus, The New Yorker, TVO Ottawa, Yukon News, National Post, Angus Reid Public Opinion, Global National, Global BC, the Globe and Mail, Vice Canada, Huffington Post, New York Times, JP Morgan (Product Strategy), Business In Vancouver, Bloomberg, David Suzuki Foundation, and in media and communications positions in various NGOs and post-secondary institutions.
Alumni on Success
Jimmy Thomson
Job Title
Freelance journalist
Employer
The Narwhal
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Journalism (MJ). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
136
133
176
127
129
Offers
86
75
78
71
71
New Registrations
33
35
36
37
33
Total Enrolment
67
74
75
72
67
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
91%
based on 140 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 130 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.7 years and the maximum time is 2.73 years with an average of
1.76 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Journalism (MJ)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. However, it is not necessary for applicants to contact faculty members prior to their application.
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Al-Solaylee, Kamal
(Literary nonfiction, Race and representation, Migration studies)
Callison, Candis
(changes to media practices and platforms, journalism ethics, the role of social movements in public discourse, and understanding how issues related to science and technology become meaningful for diverse publics.)
Dadugblor, Stephen
(English language; Rhetoric; Digital media/social media; democratic deliberation; decoloniality; writing studies; African Studies)
Hermida, Alfred
(Social sciences; Digital journalism; Media innovation; social media; Transformation of news; Misinformation)
Klein, Peter
(Media Types (Radio, Television, Written Press, etc.); Video and New Media; Global Health and Emerging Diseases; Large International Projects; Media and Democratization; Global Journalism; Innovation in Journalism; Documentary Production; Investigative Reporting)
Maraj, Louis
(Languages and literature; Philosophy; Rhetoric; Black Studies; digital media; Cultural Studies; media studies; Critical Pedagogies; Race and Racism)
McGee, Alexis
(Languages and literature; Black Feminist Theory; African American language, literacies, and rhetorics; Rhetorical theory and composition pedagogy; Rhetorical History; Composition History; Sociolinguistics; Sound (voice))
Tenenboim, Ori
Young, Mary-Lynn
(Sociology of the media, gender, media economics, representations, online news, media and crime, Internet)
Sample Thesis Submissions
Media professionalism or activism : roles of overseas Hong Kong media post-2019 protests and national security laws
Climate skepticism presence and changing climate journalism sourcing practices in the 2023 British Columbia wildfire coverage
Journalism through the eyes of Gen Z : how young audience members wish news was presented
Racialized early-career journalists in Canada and alternative journalistic approaches
Framing violence in times of peace talks : El Tiempo’s news coverage of massacres committed during the 1999–2002 Colombian government - FARC peace process
Bringing situated knowledges and counter-narratives into the newsroom : Muslim female journalists in Canadian media
Further Information
Specialization
Journalism
This program focuses on the writing of journalism, on the historic evolution of journalism as a profession, ethics and journalism, on journalism and the legal system, and on the role and character of journalism in a changing society.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/journalism
Program Website
https://jwam.ubc.ca/graduate/masters-program/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Arts
Academic Unit
School of Journalism, Writing, and Media
Program Identifier
VGMMJO
Classification
Journalism and professional writing
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
31 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
31 January 2025
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubcjournalism/
https://twitter.com/UBCJournalism/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver