Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-education-indigenous-education

Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Education in Indigenous Education (MEd)
Master of Education in Indigenous Education (MEd)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The MEd is designed for teachers, administrators, community educators, early childhood educators, or students in other professions who wish to enhance their knowledge and professional practice in Indigenous education. This program will:
Develop educators’ knowledge, understanding and theory and pedagogic skills concerning Indigenous education and Indigenous knowledge;
Analyze existing curriculum frameworks and structures so that educators may better understand Indigenous worldviews and use Indigenous knowledge and pedagogies in respectful and responsible ways; and
Provide new professional development opportunities for learning about and practicing Indigenous pedagogies and ways of knowing and thoughtful and strategic ways to implement these in education curricula and programming.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
Program Structure
This degree encompasses flexible learning modes and so will be offered on-campus in summer months within classroom and land - based settings, as well as online to support remote learning. The program normally takes 28 months of consecutive study.
The following 7 courses (21 credits) are required:
EDST 591: Indigenous Epistemology and Curriculum (3 credits)
LLED 513: Indigenous Storytelling in Education (3 credits)
EDCP 532: Theories and Dimensions of Place- Based Education: Ecohumanist, Critical, and Indigenous Lenses (3 credits)
EDUC 500: Research Methods in Education - Indigenous Emphasis (3 credits)
EDST 545: Indigenous Inquiry and Research (3 credits)
ETEC 521: Indigeneity, Technology, and Education (3 credits)
One of EDST 590, LLED 590, or EDCP 590: Graduating Paper (3 credits)
Recommended electives (9 credits) include the following:
EDCP 539: Narrativity, Ecopedagogy and Indigeneity (3 credits)
EDST 505: First Nations and Educational Change (3 credits)
EDST 546: Indigenous Methodology and Epistemology (3 credits)
LLED 527: Materials Development for Indigenous Language Learning & Teaching (3 credits)
EDUC 440: Aboriginal Education in Canada (3 credits)
FNEL 480: Endangered Language Documentation and Revitalization (3-12 credits)
FNEL 380: Technologies for Endangered Language Documentation and Revitalization (3 credits)
EDUC 442: Critical Issues in Indigenous Education (1-3 credits)
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Education
Mode of delivery
On campus / Online combination
Program Components
Coursework + Options
Academic Unit
Office of Research in Education
Specialization
Indigenous Education
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $7,164.30 | International: $8,205.12
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 90
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
2) Meet Deadlines
Application open dates and deadlines for an upcoming intake have not yet been configured in the admissions system. Please check back later.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Course-based programs do not have a thesis component. While they may assign academic advisors to students, they do
not
require applicants to reach out to individual professors / faculty members to seek commitment as their thesis supervisor. Please do not contact faculty members for the purposes of thesis supervision if you are applying to this program.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$2,388.10
$2,735.04
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$7,164.30
$8,205.12
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Education in Indigenous Education (MEd). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
73
44
0
0
0
Offers
25
44
0
0
0
New Registrations
20
43
0
0
0
Total Enrolment
64
43
0
0
0
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year.
Further Information
Specialization
Indigenous Education
This specialization provides educators with in-depth preparation on K-12 Indigenous educational frameworks, theories, policies, curricular approaches, and community relationships that build upon Indigenous knowledge systems.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/indigenous-education
Program Website
https://educ.ubc.ca/new-program-master-of-education-in-indigenous-education/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Education
Academic Unit
Office of Research in Education
Program Identifier
VGMMED-IEZ1
Classification
Indigenous education system
Curriculum and pedagogy theory and development
Teaching approaches
Specialized studies in Indigenous education
Teacher education and professional development of educators
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Start calling Vancouver “Home”
The metropolitan area is known for its diversity and UBC is one of the most international universities in Canada. This multicultural community means we have a wide range of restaurants, grocery stores, and events to provide a sense of belonging.