Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-public-health-master-nursing

Master of Public Health and Master of Science in Nursing (MPH/MSN)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Public Health and Master of Science in Nursing (MPH/MSN)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Applicant Information
The MPH/MSN program will not be accepting applications for the foreseeable future.
Overview
The Master of Public Health and Master of Science in Nursing is a unique dual degree program offered at the University of British Columbia. This program is jointly offered by the School of Population and Public Health and the School of Nursing.
Nurses constitute the largest group of professionals in the public health work force.  The MPH/MSN joint degree program will produce advanced practice public health nurses who have integrated knowledge and training in epidemiology, biostatistics, health service management, population-focused nursing interventions, policy development, research, and leadership skills and are capable of applying them to a diverse range of public health issues in interdisciplinary environments.
The MPH degree is currently the most widely recognized professional credential for leadership in public health, while the MSN provides advanced practice, nursing management, and research skills for supporting public health nurse leaders, and evaluating public health nursing practice.  In addition, nurses in the MPH/MSN program will have access to a variety of courses in either School that address core competencies as defined by the Public Health Agency of Canada.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Students in the program will have the opportunity in research and practical experience through a thesis in Nursing and a practicum in the MPH program. These requirements will enable graduates to be well prepared for admission to doctoral programs if they so desire.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Medicine
Mode of delivery
On campus / Online combination
Program Components
Coursework + Options
Academic Unit
School of Population and Public Health
Specialization
Population and Public Health
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $11,031.50 | International: $31,623.10
School
School of Population and Public Health
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.5
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Other Requirements
Applicants must meet our
quantitative admissions requirement
. You can do so by receiving a B+ or higher in an approved calculus or statistics course, or take the GRE (minimum 153 quantitative and 153 verbal). Please note that the GRE must have been taken in the last 5 years. If you think you have taken a calculus or statistics course that meets our quantitative admission requirement, please send us a detailed course syllabus/outline for our office to review. Generally, we encourage international applicants to take the GRE as it can be difficult for us to evaluate international courses.
2) Meet Deadlines
Application open dates and deadlines for an upcoming intake have not yet been configured in the admissions system. Please check back later.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Public Health and Master of Science in Nursing (MPH/MSN)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Program Components
As part of the MPH program, there is a 12-week, full time (or equivalent) practicum component and as part of the MSN program, there is a thesis component.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$3,677.16
$10,541.03
Program Fee
$22,062.96
$63,246.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$250.00
$250.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Public Health and Master of Science in Nursing (MPH/MSN). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
0
0
0
0
6
Offers
0
0
0
0
2
New Registrations
0
0
0
0
2
Total Enrolment
0
1
5
10
12
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
85%
based on 14 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 9 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 2.41 years and the maximum time is 5.8 years with an average of
3.55 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Public Health and Master of Science in Nursing (MPH/MSN)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Amri, Michelle
(Global Health Ethics; normative nature of health equity; Health Equity; Public Policy; Governance; Global Health; International health)
Anis, Aslam
(cost effectiveness of AIDS treatments; drug assessments – pharmacoeconomics; health care economics; health regulations, Health economics, rhematoid arthritis, biologic therapies)
Bansback, Nick
(inform policies and practices in health through the application of)
Bhatti, Parveen
Black, Charlyn
(Public and population health)
Brauer, Michael
(Environmental and occupational health and safety; Health sciences; Public and population health; air pollution; built environment; Community Health / Public Health; environmental health; environmental epidemiology; healthy cities; remote sensing)
Brussoni, Mariana
(Developmental psychology; Psychosocial, sociocultural and behavioral determinants of health; Population health interventions; injury prevention; Children's outdoor play; Risky play; Parenting; health behaviour change; Implementation Science)
Bryan, Stirling
(Economics of health care, policy, from UK)
Cox, Susan
(Other medical  sciences; Sociology and related studies; Arts (arts, history of arts, performing arts, music), architecture and design)
Davies, Hugh William
(Environmental and occupational health and safety; Health sciences; Public and population health; Antineoplastic drug hazards; Community Health / Public Health; environmental health; Exposure Assessment; Noise and Health; Occupational Health; Occupational Safety and Health)
Deering, Kathleen
(Medical, health and life sciences)
Dummer, Trevor
(health geography, cancer prevention, environmental exposures, health inequalities, geographic information science, obesity, risk factors, Environmental epidemiology and environment and health interactions, with specific emphasis on cancer etiology and cancer prevention)
Elango, Rajavel
(Protein Nutrition, Maternal-Fetal Nutrition, Childhood Malnutrition, Amino Acid Metabolism, Human Nutrition )
Frank, Erica
(Health sciences; Public and population health; Other education; Free education; Preventive Medicine; Sustainable Architecture and Landscape Architecture; Holocaust studies; Exile Reintegration; Democratization; Intervention Research)
Gadermann, Anne
(Social determinants of health; Housing and homelessness; Quality of)
Gilbert, Mark
(Public and population health; Development, implementation, evaluation and scale-up of innovative sexual health programs; Gay men’s sexual health, including sexual health literacy; Synergistic and integrated dynamics of infectious diseases, mental illness and other conditions)
Greyson, Devon
(Health-related information practices of youth, parents, and families; Intersection between information practices and health behavior,; Cannabis use decision making in pregnancy and lactation; Vaccine confidence and decision making about vaccination; Disinformation in social media support communities; Online communication among young parents)
Guhn, Martin
(Developmental psychology; Psychosocial, sociocultural and behavioral determinants of health; social context and child development/well-being; Population health; social determinants of health)
Henderson, Sarah
(Environmental and occupational health and safety; wildfire smoke; air pollution; Extreme weather events; environmental health; radon gas; Food safety; Water quality)
Janssen, Patricia
(Health sciences; Public and population health; Gestation / Parturition; health of marginalized women; Lifestyle Determinants and Health; maternal child health; mobile health for pregnancy and parenting; Perinatal Period; social determinants of health)
Joseph, K.S.
(Pregnancy complications, preterm birth, fetal growth, infant mortality, neonatal)
Kalua, Khumbo
(Population health interventions; Infectious diseases; Global health; Epidemiology (except nutritional and veterinary epidemiology); Neglected Tropical Eye Diseases; Global Eye Health; Cluster Randomized Trials; Implementation Science; International Global Health; Community Based Research; Clinical trials)
Karim, Ehsan
(Biostatistical methods; Survey methodology and analysis; Statistical learning; Epidemiology (except nutritional and veterinary epidemiology); Public and population health, n.e.c.; Causal inference; Biostatistics; Statistics; Machine Learning; data science; Survey data analysis; multiple sclerosis)
Kassam, Rosemin
(Medical, health and life sciences; Child Health, Malnutrition, Adult Chronic Disease, Geriatrics)
Kazanjian, Arminee
(Medical biotechnology; Health systems and policy, equitable access to healthcare;  cancer survivorship,  psychosocial care)
Pages
1
2
3
next ›
last »
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Population and Public Health (PhD)
Master of Global Health (MGH)
Master of Public Health (MPH)
Master of Science in Population and Public Health (MSc)
Same Academic Unit
Master of Health Administration (MHA)
Master of Health Science (MHSc)
Master of Science in Occupational and Environmental Hygiene (MSc)
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Master of Science in Nursing (MSN)
Further Information
Specialization
Population and Public Health
The School of Population and Public Health (SPPH) offers both research-oriented and professional/course-based graduate programs.
Professional programs
The
Master of Public Health
focuses on illness prevention and health promotion and integrates learning in epidemiology; biostatistics; the social, biological and environmental determinants of health; population health; global health; disease prevention and health systems management with skill-based learning in a practicum setting.
The
Master of Health Administration
is a professional program for clinicians, administrators, researchers and managers who are seeking solutions to today’s complex health delivery issues. Take courses with a multi-disciplinary perspective in health systems, policies and management along with foundational business skills
The
Master of Science in Occupational and Environmental Hygiene
(MSc OEH) program provides the skills and knowledge to anticipate, recognize, evaluate, and control chemical, physical and biological hazards in workplace and community environments.
Research-based Programs
Master of Health Science
(MHSc) applicants must have an MD or equivalent, including dentistry or veterinary medicine, and will learn skills that can be applied to their academic and clinical interests, bolstering their research abilities and opportunities.
The
Master of Science in Population and Public Health
program teaches core knowledge and skills in epidemiological and biostatistical methods and allows students to gain research experience by applying methods to a thesis under the supervision of a faculty member. Students can pursue thesis research in a wide variety of topics related to the health of populations and the delivery of health services.
The
PhD
program at SPPH is intended for students who wish to obtain advanced research training that will enable them to conduct independent investigative research.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/population-and-public-health
Program Website
https://spph.ubc.ca/programs/mph/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Medicine
Academic Unit
School of Population and Public Health
Program Identifier
VGMMPS
Classification
Public and population health
Nursing
Program Website
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/UBC.SPPH/
https://www.linkedin.com/school/ubc-school-of-population-and-public-health/
https://twitter.com/ubcspph/
https://www.youtube.com/ubcspph1/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Considering Vancouver as your next home?
This city won’t disappoint. It has it all: sea, parks, mountains, beaches and all four seasons, including beautiful summers and mild, wet winters with snow.
Learn more about life in Vancouver