Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-occupational-therapy

Master of Occupational Therapy (MOT)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Occupational Therapy (MOT)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Master of Occupational Therapy (MOT) program is a twenty four month professional master's degree program, and the only occupational therapy degree program in British Columbia. It is a professional degree program with no thesis requirement and the curriculum is based on a combination of coursework and fieldwork placement. Our program is fully accredited by the Canadian Association of Occupational Therapists and graduates are eligible to write the national licensing exam upon graduation.
Occupational therapists provide specialized rehabilitation services to maintain, restore, or improve the ability of children and adults to perform the occupations of daily life, which may be impaired as a result of illness, injury, congenital or acquired disabilities, or social disadvantage. Occupational therapists focus on adapting the environment or improving the person's skills, to enhance performance in the areas of self-care (eating, dressing, personal hygiene), productivity (household work, employment, school), and leisure activities, thereby improving overall health and quality of life.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Over the course of 2 years, there are 5 fieldwork placements of 5-7 weeks each.
This program is one of the smallest MOT programs in Canada; our students enjoy small class sizes and more individual attention. With a modular based structure, we engage over 50 clinicians a year to teach our students the skills and theory required for practice, supplementing our core program. Our teaching team believes not only in creating an environment that is open and exciting, but also recognizes that they are educating and working with their colleagues of tomorrow. We are currently the only Occupational Therapy program in Canada to offer designated seats for international students
The UBC Master of Occupational Therapy (MOT) program has three geographically distinct sites:
Vancouver cohort
, located at the UBC Point Grey campus
North cohort
, located in Prince George
Fraser cohort
, located across from Surrey Memorial Hospital
This distributed model of learning uses technology to allow instructors and students to interact in real-time at multiple locations. It is a well-established model with benefits from accessing expertise across the province, learning through both an urban and rural lens, smaller class sizes, and unique placement opportunities in northern and rural regions with special populations.
All MOT students complete the same curriculum at the same time, in the same sequence, with the same points of evaluation, regardless of site.
All sites are well-connected with the latest technology. Larger lectures are broadcast across all sites simultaneously, with smaller group tutorials and lab skills classes taught by lead instructors at each site.
The MOT program at UBC was outstanding and is helping me achieve both career and personal development goals. We learned the importance of self-reflection as a critical tool for development, which admittedly was something I did occasionally before entering the program and I now do almost daily.
Ali Zwicker
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Medicine
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Practicum
Academic Unit
Department of Occupational Science & Occupational Therapy
Specialization
Occupational Therapy
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $8,172.60 | International: $53,393.90
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.5
Reading
7.0
Writing
7.0
Speaking
7.0
Listening
7.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
Completion of a recognized baccalaureate degree in any field. Your degree must be academically equivalent to a UBC 4-year Bachelor’s degree in any field, from any accredited post-secondary institution. Your degree can be in progress at the time of the application deadline, but all courses required for the completion of your degree must end by April 30 of the application year. Students with undergraduate degrees in progress during the Summer term (ie. May-August) cannot apply for the September intake.
Course Requirements
Successful completion of the following prerequisite courses. The prerequisite courses can be in progress at the time of the application deadline, but must be completed by April 30 of the application year.
Accepted Human Anatomy Course (1 course of 3 credits or equivalent): focus on gross human anatomy of the upper and lower limbs and trunk. To view the lists of accepted and declined courses (to fulfill this requirement), or for information on submitting a course for review, please visit the
Human Anatomy Requirement
page.
Social Science Course (1 course of 3 credits or equivalent): any course, at any level from an accredited post-secondary institution in Sociology, Anthropology or Human Geography. If you have taken any sociology, anthropology or human geography course, at any level at a post-secondary institution, you do not need to confirm if the course will fulfill the requirement. If you have taken a course outside of this discipline and you feel it may fulfill the requirement, it can be assessed on a case-by-case basis by providing the course syllabus to
mot.admissions@ubc.ca
. The intent of the social science pre-requisite is to provide students with a broad background at personal/body, group/family and societal levels.
Behavioural Science Course (1 course of 3 credits or equivalent): any course, at any level from an accredited post-secondary institution in Psychology. If you have taken any psychology course, at any level at a post-secondary institution, you do not need to confirm if the course will fulfill the requirement. If you have taken a course outside of this discipline and you feel it may fulfill the requirement, it can be assessed on a case-by-case basis by providing the course syllabus to
mot.admissions@ubc.ca
.
Document Requirements
All admitted MOT students are required to undergo an immunization review with university health services at their MOT program site location, to ensure they are up-to-date on all immunizations required by the Office of the Provincial Health Officer and the Provincial Health Authorities. Once immunization records are reviewed, students may be required to book additional vaccination appointments with health services to complete necessary vaccination and/or lab tests. Students are responsible for obtaining their immunization records before booking an appointment with their MOT program site health services provider.
The Department of Occupational Science and Occupational Therapy, and all MOT students, are required to follow guidelines and mandates for health care workers, including immunization and vaccination requirements, set by both the Provincial Health Officer and the Provincial Health Authorities. These may change during the course of the program. Health care workers include MOT students on placements. In order to participate in any activities with patients, MOT students must meet all immunization requirements. Students who are unable to complete the required clinical hours during the program due to missing immunization requirements will not be able to graduate from the Master of Occupational Therapy program.
The University of British Columbia is subject to the requirements of the Criminal Records Review Act (CRRA); meaning all students, who are enrolled in programs that include a practicum component involving work with children or vulnerable adults, will have to undergo a criminal record check before they will be permitted to register in the practicum.
If you are found to present a risk of physical or sexual abuse to children, or physical, sexual, or financial abuse to vulnerable adults, as a result of the CRRA check, you will not be permitted to register in the practicum. If the practicum is required for your program, this means that you may not be able to complete the program and you may not graduate. Please consider this requirement carefully before applying to, or continuing in, this program.
Other Requirements
Successful completion of a minimum of 70 hours of interactive volunteer or work experience with individuals with disabilities at the time of the application deadline. This experience can be paid or unpaid and must include direct in-person contact and interaction with individuals with cognitive, emotional or physical disabilities. Your experience must be completed at no more than two facilities/organizations. You must have a direct supervisor, in an official role, who can act as your reference, and comment on your abilities and verify the number of hours you completed. In order for your experience to be counted, you must have been hired directly by an organization as an employee or volunteer. You must provide a reference from an individual employed by the organization who acted as your direct supervisor. The individual(s) submitting the Volunteer/Work Experience Reference, to verify and validate your experience, cannot be a family member under any circumstances.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 October 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
15 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
15 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
15 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
15 January 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Course-based programs do not have a thesis component. While they may assign academic advisors to students, they do
not
require applicants to reach out to individual professors / faculty members to seek commitment as their thesis supervisor. Please do not contact faculty members for the purposes of thesis supervision if you are applying to this program.
Criminal Record Check
This program contains a practicum component for which a
criminal record check
is required.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Program Components
Over the course of 2 years, there are 5 fieldwork placements of 5-7 weeks each.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$2,724.20
$17,797.97
Program Fee
$16,345.20
$106,787.82
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Supplementary fees (once)
$1324.25 $130.25 Supplemental application fee, $726 Program fee (year 1), $468 program fee (year 2)
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$1000.00
$1000.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
The MOT program prepares graduates to be self-directed, lifelong learners, who consciously use theory, evidence and critical thinking skills to maintain, evaluate and improve their practice of occupational therapy. Occupational therapists work in both public and private practice, in hospitals and rehabilitation centers, in home care and community health, in schools and clinics. Occupational therapists work with clients across the life spectrum with a diverse range of needs. With a shortage of occupational therapists across BC and Canada, graduates of the MOT program at UBC are in high demand
Alumni on Success
Jaqueline Brower
Job Title
Occupational therapist
Employer
Fraser Health
Chihori Tsukura
Job Title
Occupational Therapist
Employer
Island Health
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Occupational Therapy (MOT). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
353
373
424
340
322
Offers
96
77
73
72
57
New Registrations
90
74
64
59
51
Total Enrolment
164
138
124
112
109
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
97%
based on 222 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 230 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 2.05 years and the maximum time is 3.07 years with an average of
2.06 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Further Information
Specialization
Occupational Therapy
Occupational therapists provide specialized rehabilitation services to maintain, restore, or improve the ability of children and adults to perform the occupations of daily life, which may be impaired as a result of illness, injury, congenital or acquired disabilities, or social disadvantage. Occupational therapists focus on adapting the environment or improving the person's skills, to enhance performance in the areas of self-care (eating, dressing, personal hygiene), productivity (household work, employment, school), and leisure activities, thereby improving overall health and quality of life.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/occupational-therapy
Program Website
https://osot.ubc.ca/prospective-students/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Medicine
Academic Unit
Department of Occupational Science & Occupational Therapy
Program Identifier
VGMMOT
Classification
Occupational therapy
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 October 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
15 January 2025
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubcosot/
https://twitter.com/UBCOSOT/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Start calling Vancouver “Home”
The metropolitan area is known for its diversity and UBC is one of the most international universities in Canada. This multicultural community means we have a wide range of restaurants, grocery stores, and events to provide a sense of belonging.
Learn more about life in Vancouver