Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-international-forestry

Master of International Forestry (MIF)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of International Forestry (MIF)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
Today’s forest conservation and resource management decisions are made in the context of global agreements and international competition for forest products and services. Decision makers and practitioners must be prepared to compete in rapidly changing social, economic or cultural settings.
The University of British Columbia’s Master of International Forestry (MIF) is an intensive, 10-month, course-based master’s program that provides the knowledge, skills, and tools required to address the social, environmental, and economic challenges of global forest change and natural resources management.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The MIF empowers graduates to seek, negotiate, and implement solutions for complex global forest challenges, and most importantly, to adapt and succeed in changing landscapes.
As an MIF graduate, you will be equipped to:
Examine relationships among societies and their forested environments
Assess trends in the valuation and marketing of forest-based goods and services
Understand landscape-level changes and spatial datasets
Implement principles of sound forest governance
Negotiate and evaluate multilateral environmental agreements
Develop policies for sustainability
Break into the international forestry scene
Program Structure
As an MIF student, you will spend 8 months studying full-time on UBC’s Vancouver campus, and 2 to 4 months on an internship or in a guided study in your field of choice. The program’s curriculum is a mix of experiential learning and real-world experiences taught through:
Courses covering a wide range of topics, including:
Forests and society
Social, community, and Indigenous forestry
Integrated natural resources management
Natural resource economics and environmental finance
Forest business enterprise
International forest governance and policy
International forestry institutions, diplomacy, and negotiations
Leadership and management workshops to improve skills required for work with international organizationsInternship or directed study–previous MIF internships have been completed in Italy, Kenya, Malawi, Nicaragua, Thailand, Canada, and the United States, within a wide range of international organizations, including the World Agroforestry Centre (ICRAF) and the United Nation’s Food and Agriculture Organization (UNFAO)
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Forestry
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Department of Forest & Conservation Sciences
Specialization
Forestry
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $20,608.80 | International: $41,110.50
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Meet a Representative
Master of International Forestry Info Session
Online
Date
:
Thursday, 31 October 2024
Time
:
09:30
to
10:30
Are you ready to take the next step in your career? Register today for the Faculty of Forestry's Master of International Forestry (MIF) online information session. Learn more about program details and how to prepare a strong application in our exclusive online presentation and question-and-answer session. MIF is a 10-month, course-based master’s program that provides the knowledge, skills, and tools required to address the social, environmental, and economic challenges of global forest and natural resources management. The program also offers a 6-12 week placement or guided study working directly with partner organizations upon completion of the program. Previous placements include working with the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (UN FAO) and the Asia-Pacific Network For Sustainable Forest Management and Rehabilitation.
Register
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
23
Writing
24
Speaking
22
Listening
23
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.5
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
Bachelor degree in a related field.
Course Requirements
Applicants must have an academic background in science, social science, or a related discipline with adequate grounding in natural resource conservation and management.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 February 2025
Transcript Deadline:
15 February 2025
Referee Deadline:
25 February 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 February 2025
Transcript Deadline:
15 February 2025
Referee Deadline:
25 February 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Course-based programs do not have a thesis component. While they may assign academic advisors to students, they do
not
require applicants to reach out to individual professors / faculty members to seek commitment as their thesis supervisor. Please do not contact faculty members for the purposes of thesis supervision if you are applying to this program.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Program Components
Upon completing the MIF course work (September to April), MIF students finish the program with a placement, directed study and/or final project. Students leverage their previous work experience and newly acquired skills to work with various organizations around the world. Students provide valuable work to the partnering organization and in return, gain relevant experience and networks to further their careers.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$6,869.60
$13,703.51
Program Fee
$20,608.80
$41,110.53
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$1000.00
$1000.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Program Funding Packages
For information on funding, please visit our
funding webpage
.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
The MIF program is designed for global citizens and environmental stewards with a desire to upgrade their existing skills and graduate to leadership positions in:
International agencies and secretariats
Finance institutions
Government ministries
Environmental NGOs and advocacy groups
Forest products enterprises and consulting firms
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of International Forestry (MIF). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
44
43
127
70
86
Offers
19
25
28
14
23
New Registrations
13
14
17
10
20
Total Enrolment
13
14
17
10
20
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
98%
based on 49 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 60 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.02 years and the maximum time is 1.02 years with an average of
1.02 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Forestry (PhD)
Master of Applied Science in Forestry (MASc)
Master of Forestry (MF)
Master of Geomatics for Environmental Management (MGEM)
Master of Science in Forestry (MSc)
Master of Sustainable Forest Management (MSFM)
Master of Urban Forestry Leadership (MUFL)
Further Information
Specialization
Forestry
Forestry offers advanced study in natural and social science, management, and economic aspects of forestry and wood science, in an interdisciplinary setting.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/forestry
Program Website
https://forestry.ubc.ca/future-students/graduate/professional-masters-degrees/master-of-international-forestry/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Forestry
Program Identifier
VGMMIF
Classification
Forestry sciences
Forestry sciences, n.e.c.
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 February 2025
International Applicant Deadline
15 February 2025
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubcforestry
https://www.instagram.com/ubcforestry/
https://www.linkedin.com/company/ubc-faculty-of-forestry/
https://twitter.com/ubcforestry
https://www.youtube.com/user/UBCForestry/videos
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver