Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-nutrition-dietetics

Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Nutrition and Dietetics (MND)
Master of Nutrition and Dietetics (MND)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The MND is a new graduate professional program based on national competencies and accreditation standards for entry into the dietetics profession in Canada.
The program involves 28 months of study with practice education placements occurring throughout the program and across British Columbia. The curriculum includes courses that focus on advanced clinical nutrition, food provision management, leadership, business and entrepreneurship, counselling, Indigenous Peoples’ health, social justice and professional dietetic practice.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Students who successfully go through the course learning and practice education components will be eligible to take the national exam to become Registered Dietitians in British Columbia.
Program Structure
The program involves 28 months of study with practice education placements occurring throughout the program and across British Columbia. The curriculum includes courses that focus on advanced clinical nutrition, food provision management, leadership, business and entrepreneurship, counselling, Indigenous People’s health, social justice and professional dietetic practice.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Practicum
Academic Unit
Food, Nutrition & Health
Specialization
Nutrition and Dietetics
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $13,268.50 | International: $34,237.90
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 90
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
Bachelor's degree in any field.
Course Requirements
Applicants with an undergraduate degree from any discipline can apply to the MND program. However, applicants must complete
five prerequisites with a minimum final grade of 72% (B) in each course
to showcase their foundational knowledge of food, nutrition, and health.
Two-terms/full-year (6 credits or equivalent) Human Physiology (e.g. FNH 160 & 161,
BIOL 155
or BIOL 153, or CAPS 301)
One-term (half-year) Introductory Biochemistry (e.g.
BIOL 201
, or BIOC 202)
One-term (half-year) Statistics (e.g.
STAT 200
, or LFS 252, or BIOL 300, or EPSE 482, or FRST 231)
One-term (half-year) Introductory Nutrition (e.g.
FNH 250
)
One-term (half-year) Introductory Food Science (e.g.
FNH 200
)*
*Understanding the difficulty of accessing an equivalent Food Science course to FNH 200, even as part of a nutrition degree in Canada, the MND program allows this course to be in-progress at the time of application. See condition a. below.
Applicants can have multiple attempts at each prerequisite; the higher grade will be used in the GPA calculation. If multiple courses are declared to fulfill one prerequisite, then a simple average of these course grades will be used.
The MND Program will accept either condition a. or b., but not both:
At the time of applying to the program, an applicant is allowed FNH 200 and a maximum of one other prerequisite course in progress.
For example, having both FNH 200 and biochemistry, or FNH 200 and human physiology in progress are allowed, but an applicant with both biochemistry and physiology in progress will not be considered eligible for admission to the MND
A transcript from the institution needs to display that the course is “registered” or “in-progress”. The deadline for submitting the final grade of all “in-progress” courses is
May 3 of the admission year (e.g. for 2024 September intake, all grades should be submitted by May 3, 2024)
. An applicant with a conditional admission offer who fails the prerequisite course may forfeit their spot in the program.
Maximum one prerequisite course can be graded as “credit” or “complete” via the official transcript, without a percentage or letter grade. The admissions reviewers will acknowledge completion of the course, but it will not be included in the GPA evaluation. This condition does not substitute any prerequisite with a grade below 72 (B) on the applicant’s transcript.
As part of the required
Self-Report Form
, all applicants will identify their prerequisite courses.  If required, you will submit additional forms and course syllabi. All applicants should review the prerequisite flowchart carefully, to understand whether their Self-Report Form will require supporting documentation.
For more information, please visit the
program site
.
Other Requirements
All applicants are required to fill out a Self-Report Form to declare their prerequisite course equivalency. Please visit the program page for more details.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 July 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 November 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 November 2024
Referee Deadline:
30 November 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 November 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 November 2024
Referee Deadline:
30 November 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Course-based programs do not have a thesis component. While they may assign academic advisors to students, they do
not
require applicants to reach out to individual professors / faculty members to seek commitment as their thesis supervisor. Please do not contact faculty members for the purposes of thesis supervision if you are applying to this program.
Criminal Record Check
This program contains a practicum component for which a
criminal record check
is required.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$4,422.85
$11,412.64
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$13,268.55
$34,237.92
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$800.00
$800.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
Successful graduates from the program will be able to join the allied health professional teams and serve as Registered Dietitians in various hospitals under BC health authorities, long-term care units, community food/nutrition care programs, and private sectors.
Further Information
Specialization
Nutrition and Dietetics
The Nutrition and Dietetics curriculum includes courses that focus on advanced clinical nutrition, food provision management, leadership, business and entrepreneurship, counselling, Indigenous People’s health, social justice and professional dietetic practice.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/nutrition-and-dietetics
Program Website
https://dietetics.landfood.ubc.ca/prospective-students/apply-to-the-graduate-program/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Academic Unit
Food, Nutrition & Health
Program Identifier
VGMMND
Classification
Clinical nutrition
Dietetics and nutrigenomics
Public health nutrition policy
Human nutrition and metabolism
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 July 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 November 2024
International Applicant Deadline
15 November 2024
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Experience the colours of Vancouver
Great academic programs, great location: the distinct seasons and mild climate are among the reasons why graduate students choose to study here -- from the autumn leaves to cherry blossoms, witness the many colours Vancouver has to offer.