Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-global-health

Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Global Health (MGH)
Master of Global Health (MGH)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Applicant Information
This program is pending final approval by the Ministry of Advanced Education and Skills Training.
Overview
The study of global health must address social, environmental, commercial, political, and historical determinants of health, as well as access to health care. The program understands global health as focused on systemic forces, such as climate change, pandemics, and socioeconomic inequalities, that impact health on a global scale, and is concerned with finding solutions to poor health outcomes and inequities created by these forces. The MGH program will provide students with knowledge, skills, and practical experiences needed to advance global health work both locally and globally. Some examples of global health work could include:
Working on health impacts of climate change in high, middle or low-income countries using international collaboration and knowledge sharing;
Working on a healthy cities initiative using research, experiences, and contacts from around the globe;
Working internationally on health initiatives while building long-term, equitable partnerships with collaborators in both high and lower middle-income countries;
Understanding the meaning of colonization and its effects on health equity in different parts of the world and working towards meaningful reconciliation in a context appropriate manner.
The program will include three main thematic pillars, selected to reflect a combination of the most current topics in global health, as well as UBC faculty expertise. Course offerings under each theme can be expanded over time. The pillars themselves are designed to be fluid and will evolve to meet the current needs of global health. Key curricular themes:
Global environmental health: inherently global environmental drivers of health inequities, such as climate change, along with policies and interventions that can address them.
Global health governance: coordination among governments, health ministries, international health bodies, non-governmental organizations, civil society, and others to address global health inequities, challenges and crises, such as pandemics.
Global health ethics: ethical perspective on global health inequities in a variety of contexts, especially those relating to colonialism, and how to navigate challenges that confront efforts to address them.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Medicine
Mode of delivery
On campus / Online combination
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
School of Population and Public Health
Specialization
Population and Public Health
School
School of Population and Public Health
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.5
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
2) Meet Deadlines
Application open dates and deadlines for an upcoming intake have not yet been configured in the admissions system. Please check back later.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Course-based programs do not have a thesis component. While they may assign academic advisors to students, they do
not
require applicants to reach out to individual professors / faculty members to seek commitment as their thesis supervisor. Please do not contact faculty members for the purposes of thesis supervision if you are applying to this program.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Population and Public Health (PhD)
Master of Public Health (MPH)
Master of Public Health and Master of Science in Nursing (MPH/MSN)
Master of Science in Population and Public Health (MSc)
Same Academic Unit
Master of Health Administration (MHA)
Master of Health Science (MHSc)
Master of Science in Occupational and Environmental Hygiene (MSc)
Further Information
Specialization
Population and Public Health
The School of Population and Public Health (SPPH) offers both research-oriented and professional/course-based graduate programs.
Professional programs
The
Master of Public Health
focuses on illness prevention and health promotion and integrates learning in epidemiology; biostatistics; the social, biological and environmental determinants of health; population health; global health; disease prevention and health systems management with skill-based learning in a practicum setting.
The
Master of Health Administration
is a professional program for clinicians, administrators, researchers and managers who are seeking solutions to today’s complex health delivery issues. Take courses with a multi-disciplinary perspective in health systems, policies and management along with foundational business skills
The
Master of Science in Occupational and Environmental Hygiene
(MSc OEH) program provides the skills and knowledge to anticipate, recognize, evaluate, and control chemical, physical and biological hazards in workplace and community environments.
Research-based Programs
Master of Health Science
(MHSc) applicants must have an MD or equivalent, including dentistry or veterinary medicine, and will learn skills that can be applied to their academic and clinical interests, bolstering their research abilities and opportunities.
The
Master of Science in Population and Public Health
program teaches core knowledge and skills in epidemiological and biostatistical methods and allows students to gain research experience by applying methods to a thesis under the supervision of a faculty member. Students can pursue thesis research in a wide variety of topics related to the health of populations and the delivery of health services.
The
PhD
program at SPPH is intended for students who wish to obtain advanced research training that will enable them to conduct independent investigative research.
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Medicine
Academic Unit
School of Population and Public Health
Program Identifier
VGMMGH
Classification
Global health
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Considering Vancouver as your next home?
This city won’t disappoint. It has it all: sea, parks, mountains, beaches and all four seasons, including beautiful summers and mild, wet winters with snow.
Learn more about life in Vancouver