Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-physical-therapy

Master of Physical Therapy (MPT)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Physical Therapy (MPT)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
Graduates of the Master of Physical Therapy (MPT) program promote 'Movement and Function for Life'. Using the Lifespan approach, the major areas of study in the 26-month MPT program include: basic sciences, clinical decision making, clinical practice (musculoskeletal, neurological and cardiorespiratory), exercise and movement sciences, and rehabilitation research.
The MPT Program has been accredited by Physiotherapy Education Accreditation Canada, and has a strong relationship with the clinical community. Students experience a total of 1080 'hands-on' clinical hours over six clinical placements in diverse aspects of clinical care. The evidence-based curriculum is structured to promote critical thinking, develop problem solving skills, promote teamwork and collaboration, and empower students to be lifelong learners.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The UBC Master of Physical Therapy program (MPT) is the only fully distributed, entry-to-practice Physical Therapy program in British Columbia. The MPT program offers students the opportunity to study at one of two locations: UBC’s Point Grey Campus or University of Northern British Columbia’s campus in Prince George.
MPT-Vancouver and MPT-North cohorts have the opportunity to learn using state-of-the-art facilities that are equipped with cameras and large screen monitors when observing demonstrations of even the most detailed subjects. Additionally, students have access to break-out rooms designed to help practice their clinical skills.
The Department leads in innovative research and is well known globally for its high standards and excellent faculty. Both academic and external faculty are recipients of prestigious teaching awards, providing an excellent learning environment.
The practical training I received at UBC was taught by clinicians that are actively treating clients in both private and public sectors. I was able to speak directly with professionals in the industry who may be able to mentor me in more niche practice areas like neurological rehabilitation and pelvic health
Callie Camp
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Medicine
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Department of Physical Therapy
Specialization
Physical Therapy
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $7,005.06 | International: $46,913.60
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.5
Reading
7.0
Writing
7.0
Speaking
7.0
Listening
7.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
Recognized baccalaureate degree in any field (120 credits).
Course Requirements
Prerequisite courses in Physics, English, Anatomy, Psychology, Statistics and Human Physiology.
Other Requirements
Minimum of 70 volunteer hours or work experience with people with disabilities.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
05 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
15 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
15 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
10 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
10 January 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Course-based programs do not have a thesis component. While they may assign academic advisors to students, they do
not
require applicants to reach out to individual professors / faculty members to seek commitment as their thesis supervisor. Please do not contact faculty members for the purposes of thesis supervision if you are applying to this program.
Criminal Record Check
This program contains a practicum component for which a
criminal record check
is required.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Geographic Restrictions
Primary consideration is given to residents of British Columbia, those out of province students who have completed a Bachelors degree or higher in BC within the last five years, and applicants who are residents of the Yukon, Northwest Territories, or Nunavut. Applicants are considered BC Residents if they hold a currently valid BC CareCard or BC Services Card at the time of application to the program. Residents of the Yukon, Northwest Territories are treated as BC residents and will be required to provide equivalent documentation to the BC residency requirement. By the application deadline, applicants must submit a scanned copy or photocopy of their BC CareCard or BC Services Card. The Admissions Office reserves the right to contact applicants for further information or documentation, if required, to clarify BC residency status. We can currently accept up to 10% of all incoming students from out of Province. Beginning with the September 2016 entrance, the Department of Physical Therapy will accept up to 8 international students per year into the Master of Physical Therapy program.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$2,335.02
$15,637.87
Program Fee
$16,345.14
$109,465.09
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Supplementary fees (once)
$1586.81 $130.25 Supplemental application fee, $1456.56 program fee
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$1000.00
$1000.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
The Master of Physical Therapy program in the Department of Physical Therapy graduates excellent practitioners and scientists. The combination of a solid evidence-based education, clinical placements, and interaction with outstanding faculty and clinical faculty ensures that graduates consistently score above average on national licensure exams, and become knowledgeable and effective practitioners and/or scientists in the private and public sectors.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Physical Therapy (MPT). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
436
402
385
306
330
Offers
134
135
111
118
93
New Registrations
118
119
99
100
80
Total Enrolment
338
318
279
257
237
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
98%
based on 318 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 350 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 0.21 years and the maximum time is 3.29 years with an average of
2.26 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Physical Therapy and Doctor of Philosophy in Rehabilitation Sciences (MPTPHD)
Further Information
Specialization
Physical Therapy
Physical therapists specialize in the assessment and treatment related to movement. Common movement disorders result from impairment of the neuromuscular, musculoskeletal, respiratory or cardiovascular systems. Following assessment of their clients, physical therapists often use physical agents such as therapeutic exercise, heat, cold, and electrical stimulation to increase muscle strength and function, reduce pain, promote general health and fitness, and prevent disability. As specialists in movement dysfunction, physical therapists also provide expertise in human mobility, carefully analyzing gait patterns and prescribing treatment regimens or devices (such as braces, crutches, or wheelchairs) to enable clients to move independently through their environments.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/physical-therapy
Program Website
https://physicaltherapy.med.ubc.ca/prospective-students-2/mpt-admissions/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Medicine
Academic Unit
Department of Physical Therapy
Program Identifier
VGMMPT
Classification
Physical therapy
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
05 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
15 December 2024
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/UBCPT/
https://www.instagram.com/ubc_pt/
https://twitter.com/UBC_MPT/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Kaitlin Gairdner
For me, my education has always been based on a sense of connection to and a means of giving back to my community and it was important for me to continue honouring that into my graduate degree. Being born and raised in Vancouver, studying at UBC really highlighted that sense of connection for me in...
Curious about UBC for grad school?
Our community of scholars is one of the world’s finest, committed to discovering and sharing knowledge, and to tackling the challenges that face our world.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC