Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-science-physics

Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Science in Physics (MSc)
Master of Science in Physics (MSc)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Department of Physics & Astronomy at UBC is noted for the excellence of its research and its high academic standards and integrity. We are constantly rated as one of the top Physics & Astronomy programs in the world. Each year, we offer 20 to 30 graduate level Physics and Astronomy courses.  We host a full range of presentations and seminars including many on current and emerging topics and technologies, and invite nationally and internationally renowned scientists to participate. We have weekly seminar series on Astronomy, Particle Physics, Condensed Matter, Biophysics, and Theoretical Physics. At our
facilities
at Vancouver General Hospital, TRIUMF, and AMPEL, seminars are held regularly for faculty and students.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
UBC's Physics and Astronomy department is home to an incredible breadth of research, from condensed matter at the Quantum Matter Institute to particle physics at TRIUMF, Canada's particle accelerator center, to large collaborations in experimental astronomy. The sheer breadth of this research is incredible and gives me the opportunity to not only pursue my interests in dark matter but also learn about the vast world of physics research as a whole from other graduate students.
Michael Sekatchev
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Science
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Thesis required
Academic Unit
Department of Physics & Astronomy
Specialization
Physics
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 90
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 October 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
15 December 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
15 December 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Physics (MSc)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
All students who are accepted to the MSc in Physics are guaranteed at least a
minimum level of financial support
, sufficient to cover tuition and living expenses.
Applicants who are interested in the production, preparation, and application of nuclear isotopes for science and medicine may consider the
IsoSiM
program that provides additional funding and professional development opportunities. Applicants who are interested in quantum materials may consider the
QuEST
program. Applicants who are interested in nanomaterials synthesis, characterization and application, and nanoscience instrumentation may consider the
NanoMat
program.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Science in Physics (MSc). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
202
214
279
224
226
Offers
58
35
70
64
66
New Registrations
20
8
30
32
32
Total Enrolment
46
51
65
66
55
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
90%
based on 73 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 64 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 0.34 years and the maximum time is 4.78 years with an average of
2.34 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Physics (MSc)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Aronson, Meigan
(heavy-ferromagnetic compounds; charge density waves; magnetic nanoparticles)
Berciu, Mona
(Electronic and magnetic properties of condensed matter and supraconductivity; Physical sciences; condensed matter theory; polarons, bipolarons; strongly correlated systems)
Boley, Aaron
(Astronomy and Astrophysics; Planet formation, protoplanetary disk evolution, formation of meteorite parent bodies)
Bonn, Douglas Andrew
(Condensed matter,  high temperature superconductors, microwave measurements, crystal growth)
Bryman, Douglas
(Particle physics, experimental; Experimental Particle Physics; Applied physics; physics)
Burke, Sarah
(Scanning probe microscopy, organic materials, nanoscale materials, surface physics, photovoltaics )
Choptuik, Matthew
(Theoretical physics, Relativity/Computational Physics )
Damascelli, Andrea
(Electronic and magnetic properties of condensed matter and supraconductivity; Electronic Structure of Quantum Materials)
Dierker, Steve
(Physical sciences; Collective dynamics of condensed matter systems; Dependence on reduced dimensionality, strong interactions, disorder, and mesoscale structure)
Folk, Joshua
(Physical sciences; 2D materials and Vanderwaals heterostructures; Quantum electronics; Thermodynamics of quantum systems; Strongly correlated phenomena; Topological phenomena; Quantum transport)
Franz, Marcel
(Condensed matter theory )
Gay, Colin
(Experimental subatomic physics,  Beyond Standard Model physics, Extra dimensions)
Gladman, Brett
(Astronomy, Planetary Science, meteorites, astrobiology, Solar system formation and evolution)
Hallas, Alannah
(Condensed matter experiments; Solid state chemistry; Quantum materials; Materials design and discovery; magnetism; Disorder; superconductivity)
Halpern, Mark
(Cosmology, Cosmic background radiation, history of star formation, measuring the geometry and contents of the Universe, satellites, balloon-borne telescopes, the physics of music, Physics of music, Cosmic Microwave Background, Physical Cosmology, Star formation history)
Hasinoff, Michael
(Low-energy particle physics)
Hearty, Christopher
(Particle physics, experimental; Experimental Particle Physics; e+e- collider; Physics beyond the Standard Model; Dark sector; dark matter)
Heyl, Jeremy
(Astronomical and space sciences; Physical sciences; Astrophysics; Black Holes; Neutron Stars; quantum phenomena; Quantum-Field Theory; Stellar; Stellar Physics)
Hickson, Paul
(cosmology, galaxies, telescopes, adaptive optics., Astronomy, astrophysics, Galaxies, clusters, instrumentation, adaptive optics)
Hinshaw, Gary
(cosmology, cosmic background radiation, Cosmology, Measuring diffuse background radiations)
Jones, David
(Atomic, optical and molecular physics,Ultrafast Optics, Spectroscopy)
Karczmarek, Joanna
(Physical sciences; Emergent spacetime and gravity; Matrix models; Noncommutative geometry; String theory)
Kunimoto, Michelle
(exoplanet detection, characterization, and demographics)
Leslie, Sabrina
Lister, Alison
(Particle physics, experimental; Large Hadron Collier (LHC); ATLAS experiment; Search for physics beyond the standard model; top quarks; dark matter; Machine Learning; Long-lived particles)
Pages
1
2
3
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
Assay development for studies of secondary structures in supercoiled DNA
Characterizing myelin membranes with ³¹P solid-state NMR
Probing r-process nucleosynthesis in neutron star mergers with theoretical predictions of MeV gamma-ray observables
From quantum computing to condensed matter : a machine learning perspective
Subspace informed compressed sensing reconstruction techniques for diffusion tensor imaging
Design and operation of a multi-dimensional coherent spectroscopy system
Quantifying resource states and efficient regimes of measurement-based quantum computation on a superconducting processor
Occupation resolved conductance of a few electron quantum dot : a test for Kondo correlations in an intermediate coupling regime
Semiclassical stability of the (1+1)D Nariai limit
Predicting primary diffusion directions in white matter from T₁-weighted magnetic resonance images
Next generation SiPM characterization and modeling for ARGO
A search for daily modulations in the CERN CAST-CAPP Axion experiment
A first photogrammetric analysis of the Super-Kamiokande detector : calibrating water Cherenkov detectors with photogrammetry
Optimizing photoassociation signals in small magneto-optical traps and evaporative cooling schemes for shallow optical dipole traps
Effective field theory interpretation of tt̅  lepton+jets differential cross-section
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Physics (PhD)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Astronomy (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Medical Physics (PhD)
Master of Applied Science in Engineering Physics (MASc)
Master of Science in Astronomy (MSc)
Master of Science in Medical Physics (MSc)
Further Information
Specialization
Physics
Physics provides research opportunities in many subfields of physics, including
applied physics
: this effort has spawned a number of spin-off companies.
medical physics
: be involved in a broad range of medical physics research in the areas of radiation therapy, medical imaging, biomedical optics and radiation biophysics.
biophysics
: the application of quantitative principles and methods to biological systems.
nuclear and particle physics
: the aim of subatomic physics is to understand matter and the fundamental forces in the universe and ultimately form a Theory of Everything.
astronomy and astrophysics
: study stars, galaxies, the material in between, and the Universe as a whole.
atomic, molecular, and optical physics
: this field is rapidly expanding and serves as the basis for many modern technological innovations.
condensed matter physics
is concerned with understanding and exploiting the properties of solids and liquids and the large area that this covers makes it the largest field of contemporary physics.
theoretical physics
: Gravity and Relativity, String Theory, High Energy Physics, and Condensed Matter Theory, to Quantum Information and Biophysics
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/physics
Program Website
https://phas.ubc.ca/graduate-program-academic-programs
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Science
Academic Unit
Department of Physics & Astronomy
Program Identifier
VGMMSC-T5
Classification
Physical sciences
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 October 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
International Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubcphas/
https://twitter.com/ubcphas/
https://www.youtube.com/user/ubcphas/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
The city and the sea
Take a break from studying with opportunities at your fingertips. Whether you want to settle down in a café or take your research outdoors, we have a place for you.