Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-community-regional-planning

Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Community and Regional Planning (MCRP)
Master of Community and Regional Planning (MCRP)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The field of planning has long been recognized as a professional field in Canada and the world. UBC's School of Community and Regional Planning (SCARP) is one of the larger graduate planning schools in North America. Its Vision is “Knowledge in action - planning in partnership", and in achieving that Vision, SCARP's Mission commits, "through education and research, to generating and transforming knowledge into action by planning in partnership to improve lives and communities and the quality of built and natural environments".
SCARP’s dual-accredited Master of Community and Regional Planning (MCRP) program provides students, through cutting-edge content and innovative pedagogy, with essential theory, skills, methods, and critical thinking and analytical tools to address and keep pace with a rapidly-changing world and the range of problems that planners try to solve. The updated program addresses some of the biggest challenges facing society today, including climate change, systemic injustice, and planning for more resilient communities; as well as ongoing efforts to repair relationships with Indigenous people and decolonize planning in Canada.
This program is intensive and professionally oriented, and students emerge as well-rounded, critical, creative agents of equitable change.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The MCRP program offers an innovative curriculum that draws upon the expertise of SCARP faculty as well as practicing planners, across a wide range of sub-fields, including housing equity, indigenous community planning, environment and climate change, transportation, and numerous more. These are not treated as separate sub-fields but integrated concerns in a transdisciplinary cross-examination of how to create healthy communities for everyone. This is reflected in the specific requirements for the MCRP degree, as well as the research, professional practice, and service activities of the faculty, staff, and students.
The MCRP program is accredited in both Canada and the US, by the American Institute of Certified Planners and the Canadian Institute of Planners. By creating an enhanced professional curriculum meeting their comprehensive learning outcomes, graduates of MCRP leave as accredited experts in the field of planning. SCARP is (by last count) one of only two schools in Canada with a master’s program fully accredited by both the Canadian and American planning organizations.
MCRP's curriculum goes beyond theoretical learning and applies its projects to real-world problems in the community. Students, consultation with faculty, intensively partner with community, municipal, and private-sector organizations as consultants, in a joint venture to identify problems and formally propose feasible solutions.
The School is highly regarded within the international profession of planning, and its setting in Vancouver, which attracts world-wide attention and acclaim for excellence in urban planning, enhances the educational experience of SCARP students.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Applied Science
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Major Project/Essay required
Academic Unit
School of Community and Regional Planning
Specialization
Planning
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $11,438.30 | International: $26,140.80
School
School of Community and Regional Planning
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.5
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 November 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
05 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
05 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
12 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
05 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
05 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
12 January 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Course-based programs do not have a thesis component. While they may assign academic advisors to students, they do
not
require applicants to reach out to individual professors / faculty members to seek commitment as their thesis supervisor. Please do not contact faculty members for the purposes of thesis supervision if you are applying to this program.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$3,812.78
$8,713.60
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$11,438.34
$26,140.80
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$1500.00
$1500.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
At last count, 95% of SCARP masters graduates who sought employment were working in a professional planning or planning-related job within one year of graduation, in various sectors of the community. These figures reflect both the historic focus of employment in the planning profession in municipal and other public sector agencies, and emergent new trends for professional employment in the private and non-profit sectors. The MCRP degree program prepares graduates for professional practice by providing the kind of forward-looking education that graduates need to become the future leaders and innovators of the planning profession.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Community and Regional Planning (MCRP). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
193
241
340
254
258
Offers
76
71
70
68
80
New Registrations
43
40
43
39
43
Total Enrolment
83
85
84
80
85
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
97%
based on 145 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 159 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.7 years and the maximum time is 2.73 years with an average of
2.02 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Planning (PhD)
Master of Arts in Planning (MAP)
Master of Science in Planning (MSCP)
Same Academic Unit
Master of Engineering Leadership in Urban Systems (MEL)
Further Information
Specialization
Planning
Planning emphasizes an integrated approach that encompasses urban policy and community development, international development, environmental and natural resources, urban design, and planning processes and methods.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/planning
Program Website
https://scarp.ubc.ca/mcrp
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Applied Science
Academic Unit
School of Community and Regional Planning
Program Identifier
VGMMCRP
Classification
Urban and regional planning
Program Website
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 November 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
05 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
05 January 2025
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubcscarp/
https://twitter.com/ubcscarp/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
The city and the sea
Take a break from studying with opportunities at your fingertips. Whether you want to settle down in a café or take your research outdoors, we have a place for you.