Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-engineering-geological-engineering

Master of Engineering in Geological Engineering (MEng)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Engineering in Geological Engineering (MEng)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
The Master of Engineering is not administered by the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies. Please check the
UBC Engineering
website for admission requirements, deadlines and application procedure.
Overview
The MEng program is a course-based Masters set up to provide students with a professional development experience that exposes them to new tools in Geological Engineering with an emphasis on the need to recognize and manage geological variability, uncertainty, and geo-risk in engineering design. The program is entirely course driven although there is a graduating paper students must write.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Emphasis in our graduate courses is placed on case histories and project work that target the integration of field techniques/data with advanced numerical modelling to better understand the importance of underlying processes, mechanisms, and interactions that can affect engineering designs.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Science
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Department of Earth, Ocean & Atmospheric Sciences
Specialization
Geological Engineering
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $6,704.13 | International: $25,109.30
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$2,234.71
$8,369.77
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$6,704.13
$25,109.31
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Program Funding Packages
The MEng program is a one-year program and students are expected to be self-funded.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
The MEng program in Geological Engineering is designed to prepare graduate students for employment in the private and public sector. Recent graduates have taken positions in geotechnical and environmental consulting companies, as well as mining and oil and gas companies.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Engineering in Geological Engineering (MEng). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
20
26
33
20
19
Offers
12
17
18
10
7
New Registrations
10
11
15
5
3
Total Enrolment
16
21
13
5
6
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
96%
based on 27 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 29 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 0.68 years and the maximum time is 2.73 years with an average of
1.18 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Geological Engineering (PhD)
Master of Applied Science in Geological Engineering (MASc)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Atmospheric Science (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Geological Sciences (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Geophysics (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Oceanography (PhD)
Graduate Certificate in Applied Geological Engineering (GCAGE)
Master of Applied Science in Geophysics (MASc)
Master of Science in Atmospheric Science (MSc)
Master of Science in Geological Sciences (MSc)
Master of Science in Geophysics (MSc)
Master of Science in Oceanography (MSc)
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Master of Engineering (MEng)
Further Information
Specialization
Geological Engineering
Geological Engineering applies earth sciences principles to engineering problems. Research interests include
landslides, debris flows, engineering geology, slope stability
groundwater hydrology, groundwater contamination and remediation, reactive transport modeling, environmental geochemistry
rock engineering, rock slopes, and tunneling
Other research areas include geotechnical engineering, environmental geology, engineering geology, economic geology, and applied geophysics. The specific fields of study may involve geomorphology and terrain analysis, groundwater hydrology, natural hazards, slope stability, petroleum and coal geology, coalbed methane, mineral prospecting and valuation, and other similar subjects.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-applied-science/master-engineering
Program Website
https://www.eoas.ubc.ca/grads/apply
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Science
Academic Unit
Department of Earth, Ocean & Atmospheric Sciences
Program Identifier
VGMMEN-KU
Classification
Geology
Geology, n.e.c.
Geophysics
Geomatics and earth systems observations
Geotechnical engineering
Geomatics engineering
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
15 January 2025
September 2026 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2025
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 January 2026
International Applicant Deadline
15 January 2026
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubceoas/
https://www.instagram.com/ubceoas/
https://twitter.com/UBCeoas/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Considering UBC for your graduate studies?
Here, you can choose from more than 300 graduate degree program options and 2000+ research supervisors. You can even design your own program.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC