Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-science-audiology-speech-sciences-speech-language-pathology

Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Science in Audiology and Speech Sciences, Sub-Specialization in Speech-Language Pathology (MSc)
Master of Science in Audiology and Speech Sciences, Sub-Specialization in Speech-Language Pathology (MSc)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
For the past 50 years, the School's M.Sc. program has provided students with an education that is grounded in the basic and applied sciences, can address complex communication problems within an interdisciplinary framework, and understand the relevance of theory in research as well as in clinical practice. The MSc program offers graduates an entry-level degree to practice as an Audiologist or a Speech-Language Pathologist. Studying in state-of-the-art teaching and research labs with outstanding faculty prepares students to be confident practitioners who are effective, in-demand, and equipped with the skills to pursue new knowledge and keep pace with the constant changes in science, practice and technology. The clinical education program strives to provide each student with experience in all aspects of the major professional area (audiology or speech-language pathology) as well as a foundation of clinical experience in the other area.
Speech-language pathology is the health profession that is grounded in the study of developmental and acquired communication and swallowing disorders. It includes the assessment and management of such disorders. Speech-language pathologists work with people of all ages whose disorders may include delayed speech and language development, neurologically-based speech and language impairment, stuttering, voice and/or swallowing disorders. Speech-language pathologists often work as part of a team, working alongside teachers, physicians, audiologists, psychologists, social workers, rehabilitation counselors and others.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The School of Audiology and Speech Sciences (SASS) in the Faculty of Medicine at UBC is the only accredited M.Sc. program in British Columbia that educates speech-language pathologists and audiologists.
SASS offers clinical externships, ensuring that you experience clinical settings that reflect the diverse realities of practice. Externships are taught by experienced clinicians who understand the needs of student-clinicians, clients and their families.
SASS faculty are internationally renowned for their research. In addition to mentoring and training M.Sc. and Ph.D. students, faculty members are regularly sought after to provide specific expertise. They often introduce cutting-edge techniques used by clinicians and institutions throughout B.C., across Canada, and around the world.
The School is widely known for its education and training that integrate foundational knowledge, research, and evidence-based practical skills. This learning experience allows individuals to adapt to changes throughout their career as an audiologist, a speech-language pathologist, and/or academic. In addition, our graduates develop a working knowledge and respectful appreciation of cultural and linguistic differences, and they learn to engage in culturally safe and competent clinical practice with people of all backgrounds.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Medicine
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Options
Academic Unit
School of Audiology and Speech Sciences
Specialization
Audiology and Speech Sciences
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $0.00
School
School of Audiology and Speech Sciences
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
A four-year undergraduate degree from an accredited university. A cumulative average of at least B+ (at UBC 76%) in third- and fourth-year courses, or at least 12 credits in the A grade range (at UBC 80%) in courses at the 300 level or above.
Course Requirements
Prerequisite coursework requirements in specific content areas are outlined in the
admission requirements
.
Online prerequisite course(s): AUDI 402 and 403 or equivalent (402 is offered in January and May; 403 is offered in March)
Document Requirements
If you are a non-native English speaker, and you do not have at least four years of continuous post-secondary education in an English-speaking university, you must provide proof of proficiency in English by meeting the following two requirements: 1. Upload a copy of your official test scores from either the TOEFL or IELTS tests, ensuring that you meet the minimum stated individual component scores AND the overall score for admission to our program. Tests must have been taken within the last 24 months at the time of submission of your application. Minimum scores must be achieved in a single sitting of the test (i.e., scores across multiple instances of a test may not be used to satisfy minimum component requirements). 2. Provide the School with a five to ten-minute recording of your speech. This speech sample may be on any topic, as long as it is neither read nor recited. An interview may follow. You should submit your recording to the School by e-mail to
inquiry@audiospeech.ubc.ca
as an attached electronic audio file (e.g., MP3).
Other Requirements
Applicants to both the Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology M.Sc. programs are required to meet with and/or complete observations of professionals in audiology and speech-language pathology as a prerequisite. Applicants must arrange to meet with and/or observe at least one audiologist AND one speech-language pathologist at work. At the end of your letter of intent (statement), include a list with the names of the audiologists AND speech-language pathologists whom you have observed in clinical practice and/or met with to discuss the profession.
2) Meet Deadlines
Application open dates and deadlines for an upcoming intake have not yet been configured in the admissions system. Please check back later.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Audiology and Speech Sciences, Sub-Specialization in Speech-Language Pathology (MSc)
The program will review research interests of applicants and recommend/match faculty members during the application/evaluation process. Applicants should not reach out to faculty members directly.
Criminal Record Check
This program contains a practicum component for which a
criminal record check
is required.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Program Components
SASS offers clinical externships, ensuring that you experience clinical settings that reflect the diverse realities of practice. Externships are taught by experienced clinicians who understand the needs of student-clinicians, clients and their families.
Geographic Restrictions
Only Canadian citizens or Permanent Residents can be considered for admission to this program.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
Not applicable
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
Not applicable
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
Not applicable
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
Not applicable
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Supplementary fees (once)
$566.00 Program and material fees
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$1000.00
$0.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
The combination of a solid evidence-based education, externships in actual clinical settings, and interaction with world-class faculty ensures that our graduates consistently score above average in national certification exams, and become knowledgeable and effective practitioners and/or academics. Many graduates receive job offers before they graduate. The majority are currently working in health authorities, school districts, and private clinics throughout B.C. and across Canada. The School’s graduates have been very successful in finding work within their chosen profession.
Speech-language pathologists work with people of all ages whose disorders may include delayed speech and language development, neurologically-based speech and language impairment, stuttering, voice and/or swallowing disorders. Speech-language pathologists often work as part of a team, working alongside teachers, physicians, audiologists, psychologists, social workers, rehabilitation counselors and others, in a variety of settings.
As a profession, the field of speech-language pathology:
Provides an essential human service
Is in high demand
Pays well (about $67,000-$85,000 per annum, depending on years of experience and employment setting)
Provides opportunities to work in publicly-funded health or education programs, or in private practice
Allows workplace and work-week flexibility
Invites creative and practical application of linguistic, psychological and other scientific theories
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Audiology and Speech Sciences, Sub-Specialization in Speech-Language Pathology (MSc)
The program will review research interests of applicants and recommend/match faculty members during the application/evaluation process. Applicants should not reach out to faculty members directly.
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Black, Alexis
(Cognitive sciences)
Ciocca, Valter
(Auditory System; Perception and Representation; Recognition of Speech; Speech and Language Development Disorders; Auditory grouping of speech and non-speech sounds, also known as "auditory scene analysis"; perception and production of normal and disordered speech)
Colozzo, Paola
(Developmental language disorders; language and cognition; discourse, assessment and intervention for children with diverse linguistic and cultural backgrounds)
Herdman, Anthony
(Auditory System; Visual System; Audiovisual, Visual, Audio and Written Communications; Electrophysiology; Language and Cognitive Processes; Neuroimaging Methods (EEG/MEG); Central auditory processing; Auditory and visual perecptions related to reading acquisition (1st and 2nd languages); Brain computer interface)
Howe, Tami
(Acquired language disorders, aphasia)
Jenstad, Lorienne
(Other health sciences; hearing aids; Aging; audiology; hearing health; amplification)
Marinova-Todd, Stefka
(bilingualism, second language acquisition, language development, literacy, ESL children, children at risk of language difficulties, language disorders in bilingual children and adults, Second language acquisition; language development and language learning difficulties of bilingual children)
Shahnaz, Navid
(Hearing, noise, audiology, ears,  effect of personal listening devices (iPods) on hearing, hearing in infants and adults,   high frequency thresholds, Diagnostic audiology, including multifrequency tympanometry and acoustic reflex studies in adults and newborns)
Skoretz, Stacey
(Dysphagia; Swallowing disorders; Artifical Airways; Mechanical ventilation; Integration of multiple systems and biomarkers during swallowing; Swallowing following artificial airway use and/or non-invasive ventilation; Cross-species conceptual frameworks of feeding and swallowing rehabilitation; Dysphagia risk profile; Early identification of dysphagia; Biomechanical and biomarker analyses; Clinical practice pattern assessment; Clinical practice guideline development for those with artificial airways)
Sladen, Douglas
(Medical, health and life sciences; cochlear implantation among children and adults)
Small, Jeff
(Other health sciences; communication; Dementia; strategies; memory training; hearing loss; Accessibility; Stigma)
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Audiology and Speech Sciences (PhD)
Master of Science in Audiology and Speech Sciences, Sub-Specialization in Audiology (MSc)
Further Information
Specialization
Audiology and Speech Sciences
Audiology and Speech Sciences endeavours to advance knowledge of human communication and its disorders by actively engaging in research, and by educating individuals to become audiologists, speech-language pathologists, and researchers.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/audiology-and-speech-sciences
Program Website
https://audiospeech.ubc.ca/prospective-students/msc-program/speech-language-pathology/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Medicine
Academic Unit
School of Audiology and Speech Sciences
Program Identifier
VGMMSC-SPCH
Classification
Speech pathology
Program Website
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Considering Vancouver as your next home?
This city won’t disappoint. It has it all: sea, parks, mountains, beaches and all four seasons, including beautiful summers and mild, wet winters with snow.
Learn more about life in Vancouver