Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-health-leadership-policy-seniors-care

Master of Health Leadership and Policy in Seniors Care (MHLP)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Health Leadership and Policy in Seniors Care (MHLP)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
The Master of Health Leadership and Policy is not administered by the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral  Studies. Please check the
UBC Applied Science Professional Programs
website for admission requirements, deadlines and application procedure.
Overview
The Master of Health Leadership and Policy (MHLP) in Seniors Care is a professional degree for health-care professionals who want to design, deliver and lead comprehensive care and services for seniors in a range of community and organizational settings. This interdisciplinary program combines graduate-level health-care courses with
UBC Sauder’s Robert H. Lee Graduate School
courses – giving you the skills and confidence to take your career in new directions.
Demographic trends have created a pressing need for talented health professionals to guide the future of patient-centered seniors care in community and institutional contexts. Organizations are seeking compassionate health-care specialists who can develop innovative services and programs. They’re also looking for individuals with the business perspective and interpersonal skills to successfully lead teams and guide change.
Choose health care and business
The MHLP in Seniors Care program offers a unique combination of health-care and business classes – giving you the strategic skills to play a leading role in this growing health-care sector. Health-care courses offer a holistic exploration of the epidemiology of aging, the influence of health policy on care, evidence-based decision-making and the environmental aspects of seniors care. Business courses offered by the top-ranked
UBC Sauder School of Business
give you a solid foundation in data analysis, project management and organizational leadership.
A full-time flexible format
In this comprehensive full-time program spanning 12 months, your classes will be scheduled on-campus for two full days each week, between Monday and Friday. Historically, courses have been offered on Mondays and Wednesdays. This structure requires between 12 and 16 hours of in-class time weekly providing a well-rounded and immersive learning experience. This thoughtful design ensures a balance between in-class engagement and independent study, fostering a dynamic education tailored to meet the demands of a rigorous academic curriculum.
In this 12-month program you will:
be immersed in best practices in seniors care as you develop care strategies, use conceptual and analytical tools, and explore strategies for leading operations and maintaining quality
enhance your understanding of policy, leadership and business practices relevant to seniors care
learn within diverse clinical practice sites as part of a curriculum grounded in experiential and community-based learning opportunities
study with renowned faculty from the UBC School of Nursing, as well as local leaders in public- and private-sector practice sites
expand your professional network while collaborating with other MHLP students
gain the fundamental business, project management and interpersonal skills to advance your career and confidently take on positions of increased responsibility
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
A Master of Health Leadership and Policy (MHLP) degree from UBC gives you the credentials and knowledge to confidently move into positions of greater responsibility or make the shift into a new health-care field.
Explore best practices in Seniors Care
MHLP courses are a rigorous combination of theory and evidence-based practice. You’ll explore philosophies of care, organizational considerations for fostering health, and the elements of the social and built environments that contribute to wellness.
Learn the language of business
Clinical knowledge is not enough. Through courses offered by
UBC Sauder’s Robert H. Lee Graduate School
, you’ll gain foundational business skills, improving your understanding of broad-based management concepts.
Understand and influence policy
Health-care policies determine how health care is organized and delivered. You’ll explore how health policy informs clinical practice education and learn how to effectively develop and influence policy.
Gain a professional master's degree from a world-class university
UBC is one of the world’s
top 40 universities
and its programs and professors have a global reputation for excellence. The
Faculty of Applied Science
is home to one of North America’s premier nursing schools, with notable strengths in the areas of seniors care and clinical education.
UBC Sauder School of Business
is ranked first in Canada and 38th in the world for business and management studies, and the school is known for its commitment to rigorous, relevant and experiential teaching.
Expand your network
As a student in the MHLP in Seniors Care program, you will grow your personal and professional network by:
learning from world-renowned faculty members – health-care educators known for their excellence in research and teaching
studying alongside motivated peers who bring a diverse range of work experience and perspectives to the program
taking business courses with students from other professional graduate programs in the Faculty of Applied Science – engaged and ambitious professionals in the
MHLP in Clinical Education
program
attending workshops and presentations featuring industry leaders (discover our professional development sessions to see the most recent speakers and topics), offering you opportunities throughout the year to gain insight into the latest issues and trends in your field
Go further
Health-care practitioners who have a deep understanding of best practices in seniors care and are familiar with business concepts are well positioned to lead change in their careers and organizations. Our graduates have the knowledge and expertise to confidently move into sought-after positions and new areas of health-care practice. They are working in the public and private sectors in positions that include director of care, director of lifestyle and therapeutic services, and provincial co-ordinator for advocacy and public policy
Program Structure
STUDY FULL TIME OR PART TIME
Choose from either a full-time (12-month) or part-time (24-month) option. With the 12-month full-time option, you'll complete your studies in one year, expanding your knowledge base and skill set in a concentrated time frame.
The 24-month part-time option offers flexibility for those who want to continue working while building their business and technical knowledge. By balancing work and study, you'll be able to apply your new skills immediately to your workplace, and bring technical and leadership challenges from work into classroom discussion. This part-time version of the MHLP in Seniors Care also an opportunity to build your professional network over two years. Students pursuing this option can expect to be on campus for two weekdays each week (approximately 10 hours total).
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Applied Science
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
School of Nursing
Specialization
Seniors Care
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $32,267.40 | International: $64,830.70
School
School of Nursing
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$10,755.80
$21,610.24
Program Fee
$32,267.40
$64,830.72
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$5000.00
$5000.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Program Funding Packages
MEL and MHLP students may be eligible for a number of
external scholarships
. Being a professional program, there are no UBC scholarships, grants or funding offered directly for MEL or MHLP students. Students who require financial assistance may wish to consider student loans through their home countries, employer scholarships, or loans through a financial institution.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
Our graduates will be in high demand in the private and public sector. Job opportunities could include conceptualizing and leading seniors-focused clinical programs, leading and managing services for seniors in a range of settings, as well as proposing or analyzing policy initiatives for seniors care. Read some of our
alumni stories on our website
to find out how  our graduates have gone on to excel their careers with their UBC MHLP in Seniors Care degree. Graduates of the program started in positions, such as Director of Care, Director of Lifestyle and Therapeutic Services, Provincial Coordinator for Advocacy & Public Policy.
Demographic trends have created a pressing need for talented health professionals to guide the future of patient-centred seniors care in community and institutional contexts. Organizations are seeking compassionate health-care specialists who can develop innovative services and programs. They’re also looking for individuals with the business perspective and interpersonal skills to successfully lead teams and guide change.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Health Leadership and Policy in Seniors Care (MHLP). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
16
18
25
16
14
Offers
7
14
21
13
11
New Registrations
2
12
17
10
9
Total Enrolment
14
21
12
10
9
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
100%
based on 40 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 35 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 0.7 years and the maximum time is 2.04 years with an average of
1.14 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Nursing (PhD)
Graduate Certificate in Clinical Informatics (GCCI)
Master of Health Leadership and Policy in Clinical Education (MHLP)
Master of Nursing - Nurse Practitioner (MN)
Master of Science in Nursing (MSN)
Further Information
Specialization
Seniors Care
Learn to design, deliver and lead comprehensive care and services for seniors in a range of community and organizational settings.
Graduate with the ability to:
understand and apply principles of environmental gerontology
analyze and use data for technical decision-making
understand and appreciate non-technical issues that impact the sector
conduct relevant quality-assurance research
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-applied-science/master-health-leadership-and-policy-seniors-care
Program Website
https://apscpp.ubc.ca/programs/mhlp/seniors-care/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Applied Science
Academic Unit
School of Nursing
Program Identifier
VGMMHLP-0A
Classification
Health and community services
Health care effectiveness and outcomes
Aged health care services (exept nursing)
Aging process
Social and biological determinants of aging
Health equity
Health care administration
Health care safety and quality improvement
Aged health care services (exept nursing)
Patient-centered care
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/MasterEngineeringLeadership/
https://www.linkedin.com/showcase/ubc-mel/
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCi8lxA9oiOltpDj-wB89Iaw/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Considering UBC for your graduate studies?
Here, you can choose from more than 300 graduate degree program options and 2000+ research supervisors. You can even design your own program.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC