Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-science-geography

Master of Science in Geography (MSc)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Science in Geography (MSc)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
Our program introduces students to independent research while broadening and deepening their contact with a selected aspect of Geography. Research can be conducted in these general thematic sub-disciplines: Biogeography; Climatology; Geomorphology; Hydrology and Glaciology; Environment and Sustainability; and Geographic Information Science.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Our MSc program is flexible, research-intensive, and student-driven. Students come to the program from a variety of backgrounds and are mentored by outstanding scholars in geographical science and geographical computational science. They are prepared for careers in government, the private sector, or non-profit organizations, based on the expertise they develop in a specific field of research.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Arts
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Options
Academic Unit
Department of Geography
Specialization
Geography
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.5
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Document Requirements
Applicants are required to upload a copy of their CV (maximum three pages).
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
01 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
01 January 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Geography (MSc)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
The most important first steps in applying for admission to our graduate program is finding and approaching a potential supervisor in the department. This gives you an opportunity to discuss the research you are interested in completing as a graduate student. Every applicant to the graduate program should, in principle, contact a potential supervisor to confirm that they are interested in reviewing the application. This does not constitute a promise from the supervisor that the student will be admitted, since admissions decisions are made by the Graduate Committee; it only serves as an indication that the potential supervisor is willing to consider supervising a new, incoming student
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Focus
Research can be conducted in, but are not limited to, these specific topical areas: Climate and Global Change; Forests and People; Geographical Analysis/GIScience; Nature, Society, and Sustainability; Geomorphology, Hydrology and Glaciology.
Research Facilities
The Geography Department at UBC has had its own building with nearly 50 graduate office desk spaces and research labs combined together. One of the main resources located inside the Geography building is the Geographic Information Centre, which offers support services for Geography undergraduate & graduate students, faculty and the general public. Holdings include maps specializing in BC, atlases, books, video recordings, course reserves on geographical topics, and BC’s largest air photo collection. The holdings form a teaching, reference and research centre located in the Department of Geography. The new Biogeomorphology Experimental Laboratory in Ponderosa Commons officially opened on January 23rd 2014, the outcome of four CFI grants amounting to approximately $3 million. In particular, this new lab is designed to establish an experimental laboratory to conduct innovative research on the interface between hydrology, geomorphology, ecology and climate (environmental sciences). Such a lab is unique in Canada with only one or two in the U.S.; this lab will put UBC research on the frontiers of science as there are both great scope and great demand for innovative and fundamental research in environmental sciences. Doctoral students conducting research on those themes will be able to utilize the new lab for their research work.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
The Department of Geography ensures all incoming MSc students a minimum level of $26,000 per year for a duration of two years through scholarships, teaching assistant and/or research assistant positions. However, if students are successful in their scholarship applications, their financial support will be adjusted. Students without external funding are required to apply for the Affiliated Fellowship, SSHRC or NSERC scholarships (where eligible).
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
Our program gets you started on track – Graduates of our M.A./ M.Sc. program have been hired as professionals in government, consulting agencies, non-governmental organizations, business and as instructors at colleges and universities. Many have gone on to continue their doctoral study.
Alumni on Success
Michael More
Job Title
Advisor, Graduate Career Development
Employer
University of British Columbia
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Science in Geography (MSc). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
36
38
49
46
65
Offers
6
8
13
7
14
New Registrations
6
6
12
5
12
Total Enrolment
22
24
22
18
19
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
96%
based on 24 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 24 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 0.34 years and the maximum time is 4.1 years with an average of
2.18 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Geography (MSc)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
The most important first steps in applying for admission to our graduate program is finding and approaching a potential supervisor in the department. This gives you an opportunity to discuss the research you are interested in completing as a graduate student. Every applicant to the graduate program should, in principle, contact a potential supervisor to confirm that they are interested in reviewing the application. This does not constitute a promise from the supervisor that the student will be admitted, since admissions decisions are made by the Graduate Committee; it only serves as an indication that the potential supervisor is willing to consider supervising a new, incoming student
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Arefin, Mohammed
(Human geography; History of sciences and technology (except medicine and health care); urban geography; discard studies; urban political ecology; Environmental justice; waste; sanitation; geographical political economy)
Baada, Jemima
(intersections of gender, climate change, migration, health and development equity)
Barnes, Trevor
(Vancouver)
Bergmann, Luke
(Social and economic geography; Geomatics; Globalization)
Dempsey, Jessica
(wrestle with the theoretical and historical-geographical complexities of environmental politics as it shapes and is shaped by the entanglement of state, economy, science, and culture)
Donner, Simon
(Atmospheric sciences; Oceanography; Other media and communication; Climate Science; climate change impacts; Climate policy; Coastal Ecosystems; Marine Environment; Climate modelling and prediction; Science communication; Net-zero emissions; Coral reefs)
Evenden, Matthew
(All other social sciences, n.e.c.; Historical studies; Environmental History; Historical geography; Rivers; Water; War and environment; Hydro-electricity)
Everhart, Avery
(Health geography; Population geography; Geographic information system (GIS and GPS) applications; Health and community services; Bioinformatics, n.e.c.; Social and cultural geography; Sex and gender-based analysis; Ethical, legal, and social issues in health, health systems and health research; Gender and health relationship; Health information systems (including surveillance); Geographic Information Science; Medical Geography; Demography & Population Studies; Critical Data Studies, Critical GIS & Digital Geographies; Transgender Studies; Intersectionality in Empirical Social Science; Health Services Research & Access to Healthcare; Community-Based Participatory Research; Feminist & Queer Theories; Measuring & Combatting STructural Racism)
Fabris, Michael
(Gender, Race, Class, Power, Colonialism, Justice, Indigenous jurisdiction within Canadian cities, Piikani Nation’s attempts to challenge the construction of the Oldman River Dam)
Glassman, James Francis
(Development Geography, Third World Urbanization, Economic Geography, Political Economy, Political Geography, Southeast Asia, Pacific Rim)
Hassan, Marwan
(Other physical sciences, n.e.c.; Earth and related environmental sciences; Geological and Geomorphological Processes; Channel Stability,; Fluvial geomorphology; Landscape evolution; Sediment transport; Surface hydrology)
Hudson, Peter
(Pan-Africanism and the Black radicalism; Political Economy, capitalism, imperialism; Archives, historiography, and historical methodologies)
Klein, Naomi
(crisis and political transformation, large-scale shocks as catalysts and accelerators for broad-based social change)
Koppes, Michele
(climate change, glaciers, natural hazards, landscape change, polar regions, ice-ocean interactions )
Kuhn, McKenzie
(response of boreal-Arctic ecosystems to climate; exchange of carbon and greenhouse gases between freshwaters, plants, soils, and the atmosphere; influence of disturbances and management on freshwater carbon and nutrient cycling; interactions of between northern freshwater and terrestrial ecosystems and global change)
Kuus, Merje
(transnational regulatory practices in contemporary Europe, but the empirical focus undergirds a broader interest in knowledge and power, structure and agency, in bureaucratic and policy-making settings; political identity, subject-formation, and center-periphery relations, especially in contemporary Europe)
Lague, Marysa
(Climate modelling; Environmental monitoring; Atmospheric dynamics and thermodynamics; Planetary atmospheres studies; Atmospheric sciences, n.e.c.; Mathematical modelling and simulation; Mathematical biology; Other natural sciences, n.e.c.; Climate Modelling; Land-atmosphere interactions; Climate Dynamics; Climate; Planetary Science; Atmospheric dynamics; Water, Ice, Landscapes; Climate: Science, Change, Action; Earth System Modelling)
le Billon, Philippe
(Geography, politics, africa, environmental, human geography, development, security)
Narayan, Priti
(Social and economic geography; urban development; South Asia; state-society relations)
Peck, Jamie
(Social and economic geography; Socio-Economic Conditions; Economic geography)
Pratt, Geraldine
(Feminist Geographies)
Schwartz, Naomi Beth
(Social and economic geography; community ecology; Ecosystem Services and Conservation Policy; Environmental Change; GIS; remote sensing; Tropical forest landscapes)
Sundberg, Juanita
(Militarization and Everyday Life in the US-Mexico Borderlands, environmental dimensions of US's border security policies in the Mexican border)
Valadares, Desiree
(Architecture; Social and economic geography; territoriality, occupation and empire in Canada and the non-contiguous US)
Wang, Jessica
(US history, 19th and 20th centuries, history of science and medicine, political and intellectual history, social and urban history, US international history )
Pages
1
2
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
Predictive modelling of beaver habitats using machine learning
Decentering the ice : place-based perspectives on the impacts of glacier retreat on downstream landscapes, ecosystems, and communities in Lingít Aaní
Impacts of pine seedling removal on post-fire carbon fluxes in a forested peatland ecosystem
A spectral mixture analysis approach to mapping fire refugia in the Montane Cordillera
Controls of sediment burial depth and distribution on a small gravel bed channel
Landscape controls on the delivery of colluvial sediment to streams
In the heat of the moment : how does exposure to news about extreme weather events shape the general public’s climate change mitigation and adaptation priorities?
Exploring the impact of the El Niño / Southern Oscillation on wave variability in Tarawa, Republic of Kiribati
Fire-climate relationships in continental Southeast Asia
Experimental investigation of the effects of upstream conditions on culvert efficiency during debris flow events
The effects of tributary sediment pulses on mainstem channel dynamics in mountain streams
Diagnosing the relative contributions of glacier retreat and climatic variability to streamflow trends in Illecillewaet catchment
Predicting daily stream temperature in British Columbia, Canada, using reanalysis air temperature in statistical models and the hybrid air2stream model
A spatio-temporal stream temperature model for the southern Coast Mountains of British Columbia
Process-based modelling of stream temperature dynamics in a glacially fed river system
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Geography (PhD)
Master of Arts in Geography (MA)
Related Disciplines
Master of Arts in Economics (MA)
Master of Arts in History (MA)
Master of Arts in Interdisciplinary Studies (MA)
Master of Arts in Political Science (MA)
Master of Science in Interdisciplinary Studies (MSc)
Further Information
Specialization
Geography
Geography covers physical, human and regional geography.
Physical geography has a strong natural science emphasis and focuses on physical and ecological systems at or close to the earth's surface, and the interaction of these systems with people. The major substantive specializations are biogeography, climatology, GIS and remote sensing, geomorphology, and hydrology.
Human geography explores the connections between human geography and political economy, social theory, and cultural studies and pursue their substantive implications for interpreting changes in past and present landscapes. Other work focuses on the political and policy aspects of these changes. Major areas of specialization are development geography, economic geography, feminist geography, historical geography, and social and cultural geography. Work in these fields often feeds into a strong general interest in urban geography and intersects with work in environmental geography.
Regional geography focuses on the following regions: Canada, Asia and the Pacific Rim, Russia and Eastern Europe, and Latin America.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/geography
Program Website
https://geog.ubc.ca/graduate/masters-programs/msc-geography/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Arts
Academic Unit
Department of Geography
Program Identifier
VGMMSC-KV
Classification
Social and economic geography
Human geography
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 December 2024
International Applicant Deadline
15 December 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubcgeography
https://www.instagram.com/ubcgeography/
https://twitter.com/UBCgeog
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Curious about UBC for grad school?
Our community of scholars is one of the world’s finest, committed to discovering and sharing knowledge, and to tackling the challenges that face our world.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC