Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-education-adult-learning-global-change

Master of Education in Adult Learning and Global Change (MEd)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Education in Adult Learning and Global Change (MEd)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
UBC, in cooperation with collaborating universities in South Africa (University of the Western Cape), Sweden (Linköping University), and Australia (Australian Catholic University), offers an innovative online, coursework-only, professional graduate program in Adult Learning and Global Change. Instructors in required courses are drawn from these four universities, so students benefit from a truly international instructional staff.
This program is for those seeking multiple, critical perspectives on the central role adult learning plays as individuals and communities engage with the positive and negative effects of globalization.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The program is designed for individuals who wish to understand adult learning in the context of global change, and thereby improve their professional practice. The courses in this program will benefit those working with adults in formal and informal educational settings, including human resource development in business, industry and government, and activist organisations, international and/or community development, non-governmental organisations, healthcare, cultural, and professional organisations, to name a few.
Program Structure
Students proceed through the two-year, 30-credit M.Ed. program as a cohort drawn from the four participating institutions and will get to know one another well, working together in various groupings throughout the program.
Required courses are sequenced so that, with careful planning of electives, all requirements can be completed in 24 months. The 9 credits of electives may be taken at any time and are usually selected from on-campus courses (for those in the Vancouver area), from various distance-mode courses at UBC and elsewhere, and from directed studies courses tailored to student interests.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Education
Mode of delivery
Online / Distance (100%)
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Department of Educational Studies
Specialization
Adult Learning and Global Change
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $9,287.04 | International: $15,243.50
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
Please ensure you follow the instructions in the online application system. After submitting your application, it is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all supporting materials are submitted properly and by the application deadline. The Admissions Committee will only review complete applications. You can check the status of your application and supporting materials through the online application system.
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 92
Reading
22
Writing
22
Speaking
22
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 August 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
28 February 2025
Transcript Deadline:
28 February 2025
Referee Deadline:
13 March 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
28 February 2025
Transcript Deadline:
28 February 2025
Referee Deadline:
13 March 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Course-based programs do not have a thesis component. While they may assign academic advisors to students, they do
not
require applicants to reach out to individual professors / faculty members to seek commitment as their thesis supervisor. Please do not contact faculty members for the purposes of thesis supervision if you are applying to this program.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$3,095.68
$5,081.18
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$9,287.04
$15,243.54
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
Vary
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Program Funding Packages
We do not offer any scholarships within the department for our MEd programs, however you can check out the information on the Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Graduate Awards website about possible funding opportunities.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
The program attracts those interested in international development work, cross-cultural education and training, the role of education in addressing various global health and environmental issues, promoting social justice in the face of economic globalization, and learning more about adult education around the world.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Education in Adult Learning and Global Change (MEd). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
49
40
41
41
44
Offers
22
20
24
17
25
New Registrations
16
15
19
15
18
Total Enrolment
42
39
38
41
44
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
88%
based on 77 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 67 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.7 years and the maximum time is 5.13 years with an average of
2.17 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Education in Educational Leadership and Policy (EdD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Educational Studies (PhD)
Graduate Certificate in Adult Learning and Education (GCALE)
Graduate Certificate in Higher Education (GCHIED)
Master of Arts in Educational Studies (MA)
Master of Education in Adult Learning and Education (MEd)
Master of Education in Curriculum and Leadership (MEd)
Master of Education in Educational Administration and Leadership (MEd)
Master of Education in Educational Studies (MEd)
Master of Education in Higher Education (MEd)
Master of Education in Society, Culture and Politics in Education (MEd)
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Master of Education, Master of Arts in Education (MEd, MA)
Further Information
Specialization
Adult Learning and Global Change
Adult learning and global change covers adult learning found in different cultural contexts and the roles learning plays in understanding and responding to globalizing forces and their impacts.The program encourages the development of a broad critical perspective on the relationship between adult learning and global change as experienced and understood throughout the world.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/adult-learning-and-global-change
Program Website
https://edst.educ.ubc.ca/programs/adult-learning-and-global-change/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Education
Academic Unit
Department of Educational Studies
Program Identifier
VGMMED-BB
Classification
Adult and continuing education, and community education
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 August 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
28 February 2025
International Applicant Deadline
28 February 2025
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://twitter.com/edstubc/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver