Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-arts-school-applied-child-psychology

Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Arts in School and Applied Child Psychology (MA)
Master of Arts in School and Applied Child Psychology (MA)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The primary goal of the program is to develop professional psychologists whose research, training and practice activities increase the educational and psychological well-being of children and youth. The School and Applied Child Psychology program follows a scientist-practitioner model, with emphasis on the integration of theory, research and clinical skills. Training encompasses academic, social, behavioral, consultation, intervention and prevention domains, and students receive training in the integration of assessment and intervention and in relevant professional, legal and ethical issues. Science and professional practice are viewed as interactive and complementary, with research integrated across core psychological and educational foundations training as well as relevant practical experiences at all levels of the program.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Top Five Reasons to join the School and Applied Child Psychology program at UBC:
Productive faculty research. Our program has award-winning scholars, whose wide range of research interests influence policy and practice. Active research grants allow many opportunities for student involvement, employment, and independent research. And UBC is currently ranked one of the top 35 universities in the world!
Extensive practical experiences. From day one, you’ll be applying what you learn in our courses right in the K–12 classroom. At the masters level you will participate in two full-year practicum placements followed by a one-year paid internship. At the doctoral level you will have your pick of specialty placements in the field of education and mental health, a practicum focused on developing skills in supervision, and a full-year paid internship.
Outstanding career prospects. School Psychology is consistently listed as a “best career” by US News and World Report. There are many job openings across Canada and worldwide, with excellent salaries and benefits. School Psychology practitioners and professors are both currently in very high demand.
Supportive environment. We admit cohorts of students who progress through the program together. Students have close contact with program faculty members throughout their graduate training. You will also get support from your peers, the school psychology graduate student assistant, and an advanced student mentor provided to you upon admission. There are abundant social gatherings and yearly program retreats.
Location. Vancouver is a diverse cosmopolitan city with a vibrant downtown, mountains and beaches, unmatched outdoor opportunities and a mild climate. It is regularly ranked in the top five cities to live in the world.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Education
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Thesis required
Academic Unit
Department of Educational & Counselling Psychology, and Special Education
Specialization
School and Applied Child Psychology
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $7,885.56 | International: $16,223.20
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
22
Speaking
25
Listening
25
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Course Requirements
Prerequisites In addition to the minimum admission requirements set by the Faculty of Graduate Studies (normally, a four-year bachelor’s degree with a B+ average in third and fourth year-level course work) in a relevant area of study, students are required to meet the following pre-requisite requirements: A minimum of 18 credits in Psychology, Educational Psychology, or Special Education and related disciplines including CNPS 362 or an equivalent undergraduate course in basic interviewing skills. Other than the courses in statistics, research methods any courses in these areas will meet the requirement. However, students are encouraged to have background or coursework in areas most relevant to School and Applied Child Psychology practice (child development, learning, exceptional students, classroom management, behaviour disorders, abnormal psychology, etc.). It is not necessary to have a degree in psychology or education to apply but coursework and background in these areas is beneficial. Upper division undergraduate course work in both statistics and research methodology with content similar to the UBC coursesEPSE 481: Introduction to Research in Education and EPSE 482: Introduction to Statistics for Research in Education. Applicants should carefully consider if the specific content of their statistics and research methodology courses is similar to EPSE 481 and 482 because these courses are pre-requisites to required statistics and research methodology background needed for research courses in the MA program. Completing a data-based honours thesis meets the research methods prerequisite. Prior research experience as an undergraduate such as an honours thesis, volunteering in a research lab, or working as a research assistant is encouraged for applicants to the M.A. program and should l be highlighted in your application. Evidence of suitability for professional work with school-aged populations, including successful work experience with school-aged populations, school-based experience and/or teacher certification. Note that teaching certification is not required. In addition to required prerequisites listed above, applicants are also strongly encouraged to have prior coursework in measurement. Examples of such courses at UBC include: EPSE 421, 423, PSYC 303, PSYC 323
Other Requirements
M.A. applicants are required to submit additional documentation that outlines their prior research experience, potential research interests for M.A. study, and potential research supervisor(s). Mandatory Criminal Record Checks: All School and Applied Child Psychology students must have a criminal record check completed through the University of British Columbia’s (UBC) Teacher Education Office prior to the start of classes. The application deadline to authorize the Criminal Records Check is August 31 to allow sufficient time for the results to be returned to the SACP Graduate Program Support prior to beginning practicum placements in the schools in September. The criminal record check cannot be done at a local police station or RCMP office.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
20 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
01 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
15 December 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
01 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
15 December 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Arts in School and Applied Child Psychology (MA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Criminal Record Check
This program contains a practicum component for which a
criminal record check
is required.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Program Components
The program is designed as a two-year program for students who want to proceed directly to Ph.D. study after two years of full time study on campus. Students apply to the Ph.D. program in December of year 2. Admission to the SACP Ph.D. program is dependent on funding and success in the M.A. program. Required Coursework EPSE 506 (3) Applied Psychopathology Across the Lifespan EPSE 528 (3) Basic Principles of Measurement EPSE 535 (3) Social and Emotional Assessment EPSE 550 (3) Professional, Ethical, and Legal Issues In School Psychology EPSE 553 (3) Theories of Cognitive and Affective Abilities EPSE 556 (3) Cognitive and Academic Assessment Practicum EPSE 552 (3) Intervention and Mental Health Promotion in Schools EPSE 557 (3) Social and Emotional Interventions with Children and Youth¹ EPSE 561 (12) Laboratory Practicum In School and Applied Child Psychology (6 credits each year 1 and 2) Research Coursework (minimum 3 credits) Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) in Indigenous Education EPSE 599 (6) Thesis Total: 45 credits
Research Facilities
The Psychoeducational Research and Training Centre (PRTC) is a university-based setting for research and clinical training within the Faculty of Education. The PRTC supports graduate training in educational assessment and counselling, maintains an up-to-date Test Library of assessment instruments, provides service and leadership in the profession and community, and facilitates research in education.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$2,628.52
$5,407.74
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$7,885.56
$16,223.22
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$1,500.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
Though we are not able to guarantee funding for all Master's students at the time of acceptance, a wide array of funding options are available. Many students receive fellowships based on academic merit from provincial and federal agencies (e.g., SSHRC, CIHR, Ministry of Education). Other students work as Graduate Academic Assistants (GAAs) and Graduate Research Assistants (GRAs). In recent years, it has been our experience that any student who desires funding is able to find it through GAA and/or GRA positions.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
School Psychology is a great career. There are many openings in BC and throughout North America, and starting salaries are excellent. With a Master's degree in School and Applied Child Psychology, the most common job is as a School Psychologist working in a school district and job prospects are excellent. In addition to working in schools, individuals with a degree in School and Applied Child School Psychology with PhD work in a variety of settings, including univerisities as researches and/or teaching, mental health agencies, child development centres, children’s hospitals, and private practices. With a M.Ed. degree in School and Applied Child Psychology from UBC, you would be eligible to apply for certification with the BC Association of School Psychologists. With a PhD, you would be eligible for registration as a psychologist with the College of Psychologists of BC and most other provinces and states in North America.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Arts in School and Applied Child Psychology (MA). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
This program went through a name change in previous years that may have included curriculum changes. It was previously known as: Master of Arts in School Psychology until 2021. Historical data on this page may include data collected under the previous name(s) of the program.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
0
88
0
50
0
Offers
0
9
0
8
0
New Registrations
0
6
0
6
0
Total Enrolment
7
14
7
9
12
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
95%
based on 21 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 10 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 2.05 years and the maximum time is 3.3 years with an average of
2.67 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Arts in School and Applied Child Psychology (MA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Cloth, Allison
(Adolescence, Adolescent development, Child and Family Counseling in School Settings, Interventions, Mentoring, Program Evaluation, Social Justice, Young People Placed )
Ford, Laurie
(Early Childhood Assessment, Youth and Families)
Kassan, Anusha
(Social sciences; Child and youth mental health; Social justice; Multiculturalism and diversity; Feminist-multicultural pedagogy; immigration; Cultural and social justice responsiveness; Anti-oppressive therapy)
Nelson, Melanie
(experiences of Indigenous caregivers within Western systems)
Schanding, Thomas
(Social and Emotional Learning; Universal Screening; Behavioral/Mental Health Interventions; Autism Spectrum Disorders; LGBTQIA+; Youth Social Justice)
Sample Thesis Submissions
Linguistically diverse assessment : a Canadian context
School-based psychosocial support services through the process of school integration : a phenomenological exploration of newcomer youth experiences
Queer newcomer youth's understandings of sexual orientation through the process of school integration
Trajectories at risk : examining young children's self-regulation in classroom contexts from kindergarten to grade 5
Teacher perspectives on trauma-informed practices in rural schools
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in School and Applied Child Psychology (PhD)
Master of Education in School and Applied Child Psychology (MEd)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Counselling Psychology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Human Development, Learning, and Culture (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Measurement, Evaluation and Research Methodology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Special Education (PhD)
Graduate Certificate in Orientation and Mobility (GCOM)
Master of Arts in Counselling Psychology (MA)
Master of Arts in Human Development, Learning, and Culture (MA)
Master of Arts in Measurement, Evaluation and Research Methodology (MA)
Master of Arts in Special Education (MA)
Master of Education in Counselling Psychology (MEd)
Master of Education in Human Development, Learning, and Culture (MEd)
Master of Education in Measurement, Evaluation and Research Methodology (MEd)
Master of Education in Special Education (MEd)
Further Information
Specialization
School and Applied Child Psychology
School and Applied Child Psychology prepares students to become psychologists who work in a variety of settings, including: research, academic, school, community, and private settings. The primary goal of the program is to develop professional psychologists whose research, training, and practice activities increase the educational and psychological well-being of children and youth. The program follows a scientist-practitioner model, with emphasis on the integration of theory, research, and clinical skills. Training encompasses academic, social, emotional, behavioural, consultation, intervention, and prevention domains. Students receive training in the integration of assessment and intervention, and in relevant professional, legal, and ethical issues.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/school-and-applied-child-psychology
Program Website
https://ecps.educ.ubc.ca/sacp/graduate-programs/ma-program/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Education
Academic Unit
Department of Educational & Counselling Psychology, and Special Education
Program Identifier
VGMMAA-WB2
Classification
Developmental psychology
Educational psychology
Social  psychology
Positive psychology
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
20 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
International Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ECPSubc/
https://twitter.com/ECPS_ubc/
https://www.youtube.com/user/ECPSubc/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver