Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-education-adult-learning-education

Master of Education in Adult Learning and Education (MEd)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Education in Adult Learning and Education (MEd)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The mission of the Adult Learning and Education graduate program at UBC is to contribute to the creation, elaboration, exchange and application of knowledge concerning the education and learning of adults in diverse contexts. This includes the development of scholars and reflective practitioners who will shape society and its institutions in ways that promote lifelong education and learning for all in critical ways.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The Adult Learning and Education (ALE) program is the oldest graduate adult education program in Canada with historical roots in traditions of social welfare, community development and extension education. ALE is concerned with the development of scholars and practitioners who will shape society in ways that promote lifelong learning for all. Our ALE program challenges students to understand the diverse contexts in which adult learning occurs and their role in these from a wide variety of theoretical, conceptual and philosophical perspectives.
Program Structure
The M.Ed. program is considered a professional degree for people who wish to work as practitioners in any adult education setting, most often as instructors, program planners, consultants or administrators. It is a 30-credit program with required and elective courses.
All on-campus master's students take a core of 9 credits of the following adult learning and education courses:
EDST 503 (3)
EDST 514 (3)
EDST 518 (3)
These core courses are supplemented with electives that allow students to deepen their study of adult learning and education or to explore topics and issues addressed elsewhere in the department and the university that have implications for adult learning and education.
Students must also take a 3-credit research methods course approved by their pro-tem advisor (for available options, refer to the Program’s website).
To complete their 30-credit program, students can a) complete 15 credits of electives and the 3-credit graduating paper (EDST 590); or b) complete 18 credits of electives.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Education
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Options
Academic Unit
Department of Educational Studies
Specialization
Adult Learning and Education
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $7,885.56 | International: $16,223.20
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
Please ensure you follow the instructions in the online application system. After submitting your application, it is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all supporting materials are submitted properly and by the application deadline. The Admissions Committee will only review complete applications. You can check the status of your application and supporting materials through the online application system.
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 92
Reading
22
Writing
22
Speaking
22
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 August 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 February 2025
Transcript Deadline:
01 February 2025
Referee Deadline:
15 February 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 February 2025
Transcript Deadline:
01 February 2025
Referee Deadline:
15 February 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Course-based programs do not have a thesis component. While they may assign academic advisors to students, they do
not
require applicants to reach out to individual professors / faculty members to seek commitment as their thesis supervisor. Please do not contact faculty members for the purposes of thesis supervision if you are applying to this program.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$2,628.52
$5,407.74
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$7,885.56
$16,223.22
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$1,500.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Program Funding Packages
We do not offer any scholarships within the department for our MEd programs, however you can check out the information on the Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Graduate Awards website about possible funding opportunities.
Average Funding
Within this program
10
students received funding in the form of teaching or research assistantships or internal or external awards averaging
$16,000
.
1 student received an internal award valued at $16,000.
Study Period: Sep 2018 to Aug 2019 - average funding for full-time students enrolled in at least two terms per academic year in this program (Year 1 to 2).
Teaching Assistantships exclude lectureships; Internal Awards = awards funded from UBC budget; External Awards = government and other funding paid through UBC. Other funding (employment income, work learn, co-op, government sponsorship, independent research agencies, etc.) are not included. Please note that these historical values cannot speak to anticipated changes in future years.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Education in Adult Learning and Education (MEd). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
90
85
98
74
61
Offers
26
24
29
17
25
New Registrations
13
11
17
11
14
Total Enrolment
30
26
29
26
25
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
98%
based on 53 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 51 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 0.68 years and the maximum time is 5.8 years with an average of
1.7 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Graduate Certificate in Adult Learning and Education (GCALE)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Education in Educational Leadership and Policy (EdD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Educational Studies (PhD)
Graduate Certificate in Higher Education (GCHIED)
Master of Arts in Educational Studies (MA)
Master of Education in Adult Learning and Global Change (MEd)
Master of Education in Curriculum and Leadership (MEd)
Master of Education in Educational Administration and Leadership (MEd)
Master of Education in Educational Studies (MEd)
Master of Education in Higher Education (MEd)
Master of Education in Society, Culture and Politics in Education (MEd)
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Master of Education, Master of Arts in Education (MEd, MA)
Further Information
Specialization
Adult Learning and Education
The Adult Learning and Education (ALE) program has historical roots in traditions of social welfare, community development and extension education. ALE is concerned with the development of scholars and practitioners who will shape society in ways that promote lifelong learning for all.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/adult-learning-and-education
Program Website
https://edst.educ.ubc.ca/programs/adult-learning-and-education/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Education
Academic Unit
Department of Educational Studies
Program Identifier
VGMMED-AA
Classification
Adult and continuing education, and community education
Educational assessment and evaluation
Vocational education and training curriculum, pedagogy and didactics
Comparative and cross-cultural education
Other education, n.e.c.
Sociology of education
Educational policy
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 August 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 February 2025
International Applicant Deadline
01 February 2025
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://twitter.com/edstubc/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
The city and the sea
Take a break from studying with opportunities at your fingertips. Whether you want to settle down in a café or take your research outdoors, we have a place for you.