Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-public-policy-global-affairs

Master of Public Policy and Global Affairs (MPPGA)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Public Policy and Global Affairs (MPPGA)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
UBC’s professional Master of Public Policy and Global Affairs (MPPGA) program equips future policy makers with a profound understanding of policy-making processes through a solid foundation of rigorous knowledge acquisition, policy analysis, career development, and experiential learning.
With a full-time 20-month program, students in Vancouver’s UBC School of Public Policy and Global Affairs will gain expertise in one, or all, of our three main streams: Development and Social Change; Resources, Energy, and Sustainability; and Global Governance and Security. With the additional flexibility to choose a range of electives – including courses concentrating on Asia – students graduate from the program ready to address complex public policy challenges and drive meaningful change, both locally and globally.
MPPGA students will benefit from our unique curriculum which fosters creativity, innovation, and collaboration by seamlessly integrating course-based learning and practical learning experiences. Complementing this, you will learn from our diverse faculty and policy practitioners at UBC, a top ranking university in both academics and action on climate change, in Vancouver, British Columbia, one of the greenest and most livable cities in the world.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
SPPGA’s MPPGA degree prepares future policy leaders with an informed perspective, critical and creative thinking skills, and professional networks qualifying them to work effectively with global policy establishments. Together, this toolkit will allow graduates to diversify and enhance their careers. The MPPGA program has a novel and broad approach to governance: going beyond government bodies to include a network of actors - NGOs, social enterprises, international institutions, and the private sector – that are target employers for graduates.
The program’s three streams allow for customization and specialization of global public policy and are reflective of UBC's unique strengths on Asia and sustainability in particular. Students will be exposed to global case studies in the areas of political, socio-economic and cultural change taught by some of the world’s leading public policy experts.
The program integrates learning and practical experience with a mix of field visits, workshops, and the intensive Global Policy Project, which provides opportunities for students to engage with policy makers and civil society to address a real-world policy challenge.
As an international student, the degree gave a network of supportive professionals who became my friends and I learned professional skills that I often use at my job.
Esther Ocheni
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Arts
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
School of Public Policy and Global Affairs
Specialization
Public Policy and Global Affairs
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $30,833.30 | International: $56,656.40
School
School of Public Policy and Global Affairs
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
22
Speaking
22
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
7.0
Writing
7.0
Speaking
7.0
Listening
7.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Course Requirements
Please see our admissions page for a full list of requirements:
https://sppga.ubc.ca/master-public-policy-global-affairs/admissions/
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
07 October 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
20 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
20 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
26 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
20 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
20 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
26 January 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Course-based programs do not have a thesis component. While they may assign academic advisors to students, they do
not
require applicants to reach out to individual professors / faculty members to seek commitment as their thesis supervisor. Please do not contact faculty members for the purposes of thesis supervision if you are applying to this program.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Program Components
Visit our curriculum page for full program details:
https://sppga.ubc.ca/master-public-policy-global-affairs/curriculum/
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$10,277.76
$18,885.46
Program Fee
$51,388.80
$94,427.30
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$3000.00
$3000.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Program Funding Packages
Detailed tuition and funding information can be found here:
https://sppga.ubc.ca/master-public-policy-global-affairs/tuition-funding/
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
The Master of Public Policy and Global Affairs (MPPGA) program will incubate future policy makers with a deeper understanding of policy-making processes, the interconnectedness of global networks, and a cross-sectoral understanding that will foster a healthier, more sustainable future. MPPGA graduates will be key players within organizations who drive innovation and creativity in policy design and implementation.
MPPGA graduates will function both in domestic policy settings and in the new arenas of global governance and understand the linkages between the different levels. With their data analysis skills graduates will know how to evaluate policy options and policy results and have the ability to work with expert data. Graduates will also have the ability to develop an effective communication policy and know how to harness the power of digital media.
MPPGA Alumni currently hold positions in an array of policy roles in diverse sectors around the world such as Government, NGOs, Private, Academic and Think Tanks.
Alumni on Success
Kingsley Eze
Job Title
Senior Consultant
Employer
EY
Anam Elahi
Job Title
Business and Research Analyst
Employer
Invest in Canada
Adrianna Spyker
Job Title
Community Health Specialist
Employer
Fraser Health Authority
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Public Policy and Global Affairs (MPPGA). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
280
244
303
335
240
Offers
186
122
167
130
142
New Registrations
64
44
64
38
42
Total Enrolment
108
102
103
80
78
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
97%
based on 116 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 170 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.7 years and the maximum time is 2.73 years with an average of
1.72 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Master of Arts in Global Studies (MA)
Further Information
Specialization
Public Policy and Global Affairs
Public Policy and Global Affairs offers the acquisition of multi-disciplinary policy analysis skills through a sequence of core courses, plus concentrated study in one of three streams: Development and Social Change; Resources, Energy, and Sustainability; and Global Governance and Security. The program takes advantage of UBC’s strengths in these areas and its substantial faculty and program resources concerning contemporary Asia.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/public-policy-and-global-affairs
Program Website
https://sppga.ubc.ca/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Arts
Academic Unit
School of Public Policy and Global Affairs
Program Identifier
VGMMPPGA
Classification
International relations
Public security policy
International cooperation and development policies
Public administration
Public policy
International and development communication
Globalization and culture
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
07 October 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
20 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
20 January 2025
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubcSPPGA/
https://www.instagram.com/ubcsppga/
https://www.linkedin.com/company/school-of-public-policy-and-global-affairs/
https://twitter.com/ubcsppga/
https://www.youtube.com/c/SchoolofPublicPolicyandGlobalAffairs/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver