Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-arts-germanic-studies

Master of Arts in Germanic Studies (MA)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Arts in Germanic Studies (MA)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Graduate Program in Germanic Studies at UBC integrates a large scope of thematic and theoretical research areas. Students are guided by faculty whose teaching and research cover a wide range of German literature, film, culture, and media. Course offerings feature approaches grounded in varied theories and disciplinary perspectives. The program's structure encourages students to develop their individual focus of study and research in consultation with faculty. Students will develop a comprehensive knowledge of German cultural works in their aesthetic, social, political, cultural, and historical dimensions. Students learn how to apply a variety of critical methods and theories to the study of cultural texts, while developing skills that are applicable to many career paths.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Our graduate programs are situated in a thriving comparative department, which houses programs that concentrate on German, Nordic, and Slavic studies. Our departmental structure and the format of the degree encourage students to pursue their work in German Studies with an interdisciplinary and transcultural approach.
Within our small department, our faculty, whose expertise lies in all areas of German, Nordic, and Slavic studies, including queer and gender/sexuality studies, film and media studies, literary studies, and applied linguistics, prepare students for their future endeavours and support them with a range of professional development opportunities. The small size of our program guarantees individualized attention from advisors and other graduate faculty members.
UBC is one of the most well-respected universities in Canada and the research/collaboration options here are amazing.
Rachel Vivian Helmer
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Arts
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Options
Academic Unit
Department of Central, Eastern & Northern European Studies
Specialization
Germanic Studies
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 90
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
For admission to the master’s program in Germanic Studies, applicants are expected to have a bachelor’s degree (or equivalent) in German Studies or a related field.
Other Requirements
Applicants are expected to have sufficient German language proficiency for graduate coursework in German Studies. For the master’s level, this is normally B2 on the CEFR scale. If applicants’ proposed research requires additional language ability (e.g., in another language), they must demonstrate their proficiency.
2) Meet Deadlines
Application open dates and deadlines for an upcoming intake have not yet been configured in the admissions system. Please check back later.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Arts in Germanic Studies (MA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. However, it is not necessary for applicants to contact faculty members prior to their application.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Highlights
Diversity, Decolonalization, and the German Curriculum (DDGC), a scholarly collective co-founded by Dr. Ervin Malakaj. “The Pasts and Futures of Queer German Studies,” funded by SSHRC and the German Academic Exchange Service. Faculty: Dr. Ervin Malakaj and Dr. Kyle Frackman. “Migration as Core Narrative of Plural Societies: Towards an Aesthetics of Postmigrant Literature,” funded by SSHRC. Faculty: Dr. Markus Hallensleben. Special issue of Seminar: A Journal of Germanic Studies on the Media Histories of Girls in Uniform, edited by Dr. Ilinca Iurascu. “Coming Out of the Iron Closet: East Germany and Homosexuality,” funded by SSHRC. Faculty: Dr. Kyle Frackman. “Epistolary Cultures circa 1800,” funded by SSHRC. Faculty: Dr. Gaby Pailer and Dr. Florian Gassner. Book series “Recursions: Theories of Media, Materiality, and Cultural Techniques” from Amsterdam University Press, co-edited by Dr. Geoffrey Winthrop-Young.
Research Focus
The program in Germanic Studies has exceptional strengths in several subfields. These include literary studies (literatures of migration and mobility, 18th-century women writers, literary history and historiography), media studies (media theory, cultural techniques), queer studies (theories and analyses of gender and sexuality in cultural works), film studies (early cinema, East German film), and applied linguistics (pragmatics, sociolinguistics, translation studies, second language acquisition, curriculum studies).
Research Facilities
UBC Library’s resources are considerable, chief among them Koerner Library and the Irving K. Barber Learning Centre. Rare Books and Special Collections has extensive collections of materials related to German Studies and book history, ranging from medieval manuscripts to 20th-century political texts. Graduate students have access to a dedicated lounge and office space in the heart of our department’s floor in Buchanan Tower.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
Typical support for master’s students is approximately $28,000 per year for two years, contingent upon satisfactory academic progress. Funding packages may include scholarships, grants, teaching assistantships, and research assistantships, depending on the student’s area of specialty and the department’s funding resources in a given year.
Our graduate students receive extensive support and mentorship from faculty in the required annual applications for external awards (e.g., SSHRC). Successful applications in these competitions can substantially increase students’ annual financial packages.
Graduate students are guaranteed up to $1,500 in research and professional development support from the department each year, in addition to the resources available from the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies and the Faculty of Arts.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
The M.A. program in Germanic Studies promotes skills that can lead in multiple professional directions. The degree can be preparation for teaching, a foundation for advancement to doctoral study, or a standalone credential. The faculty aim to assist students with the development of transferable skills, beyond critical thinking, that can serve them well in the long term: for example, locating and analyzing information, presenting information to diverse audiences, working independently and in teams, and applying cultural knowledge to interpretations of complex texts and situations.
Our program’s alumni can be found in higher education, non-profits, and in the private sector. Master’s alumni have gone on to study at other outstanding universities such as Toronto, McGill, and Cornell and have pursued careers in secondary education.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Arts in Germanic Studies (MA). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
3
0
6
10
3
Offers
3
0
3
2
1
New Registrations
1
0
3
1
0
Total Enrolment
3
2
2
1
1
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
83%
based on 6 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 5 graduating students from the 2015 - 2018 admissions cohort the minimum time to completion is 2.05 years and the maximum time is 2.05 years with an average of
2.05 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Arts in Germanic Studies (MA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. However, it is not necessary for applicants to contact faculty members prior to their application.
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Bowers, Katherine
(Literature and literary studies; Arts, Literature and Subjectivity; Arts and Cultural Traditions; Arts and Technologies; Arts and Literary Policies; Dostoevsky; genre; gothic fiction; imagined geography; literary culture; narrative; Russian culture; Russian literature; the novel)
Frackman, Kyle
(Cinema studies; Media studies (except social media and digital media); Literature and literary studies; Cultural studies; queer studies; German studies; media studies; history of sexuality; sexuality; sexuality studies; East Germany; film; Gender Studies; history of science; literature; Media; Media Types (Radio, Television, Written Press, etc.); Scandinavia)
Frandy, Tim
(traditional culture, decolonization, environments, education, and cultural revitalization)
Gramling, David
(Humanities and the arts; Social sciences; Medical, health and life sciences; multilingualism / monolingualism; Literary Theory; lgbtq queer studies; labour migration; applied linguistics; health communication; translation; Turkish literature; German studies)
Hallensleben, Markus
(Transcultural Studies; Artistic and Literary Theories; Literary or Artistic Works Analysis; Migrations, Populations, Cultural Exchanges; German Language Cultures and Literatures; Transnational Literatures; Visual Arts and Literature; European Studies; Literature and Sciences; Literature and Migration; Narratives of Belonging)
Iurascu, Ilinca
(Comparative literatures; Theories of cultural studies; Media, visual and digital culture; German literature; Comparative Literature; Cultural Studies; media theory; Media history; critical theory; film studies)
Karwowska, Bozena
(Sexuality, Body and Gender in Nazi Concentration Camps)
Kemple, Thomas
(Social and cultural theory, history of social sciences, literary and interpretive methods, aesthetic sociology, visual representation of concepts and arguments)
Malakaj, Ervin
(Literature and literary studies; German studies; German Film Studies; German Media Studies; German Media History; Queer Theory and Queer Studies; Feminist and Queer Film Historiography; Critical Pedagogy)
Pailer, Gaby
(German literature, gender and literature, drama and theatre, enlightment, classicism and romanticism )
Rieger, Caroline
(Laughter in interaction, education for global citizenship, translation, language assessment, learning of a third language in a second language environment)
Winthrop-Young, Geoffrey
(German theories of media and cultural techniques, Complexity, biological evolution and animal studies, Secret societies and conspiracy theories, Science Fiction (special focus on Alternate history))
Sample Thesis Submissions
Groomer rumor : the trope of the queer child predator in German and American popular media (1869–2024)
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Germanic Studies (PhD)
Further Information
Specialization
Germanic Studies
Course offerings include approaches from historical, cultural, media, performance, and gender/sexuality studies and move beyond a traditional epoch-based mode of disciplinary engagement.
Students have the opportunity to: develop comprehensive knowledge and critical judgment of German literary history; acquire an understanding of literary texts in their aesthetic, social, political, (inter)cultural, and historical dimensions; apply a variety of critical methods and theories to the study of literary texts; and refine literary sensibilities, analytical skills, and conceptual abilities.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/germanic-studies
Program Website
https://cenes.ubc.ca/graduate/masters-program/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Arts
Academic Unit
Department of Central, Eastern & Northern European Studies
Program Identifier
VGMMAA-K1
Classification
European history (except British, classical Greek and Roman)
Medieval history
Other European languages
Literature and literary studies, n.e.c.
Cultural studies
History of sciences and technology (except medicine and health care)
Book history (including print culture)
Contemporary literatures
Science fiction and fantasy literatures
Literature and critical theory
Program Website
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/cenestudies/
https://twitter.com/cenesubc/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Experience the colours of Vancouver
Great academic programs, great location: the distinct seasons and mild climate are among the reasons why graduate students choose to study here -- from the autumn leaves to cherry blossoms, witness the many colours Vancouver has to offer.