Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-arts-music-musicology

Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Musicology (MA)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Musicology (MA)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The M.A. and Ph.D. programs in musicology at the UBC School of Music offer students advanced training leading to professional careers in teaching and scholarly research. Graduate students enjoy a program that balances sound historical methods with critical interpretation, and forges interdisciplinary connections to music theory, ethnomusicology, and the humanities in general. The musicology faculty’s areas of expertise range from Medieval repertories through music of the 21st century, and represent a variety of scholarly approaches and critical methods.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Musicology at UBC is expansive.  The four faculty members work on music from the Middle Ages to the present day. Their work also stretches across genres, among them, classical, Asian traditions, jazz, and popular music. They also engage a wide range of critical approaches, including sound studies, transnationalism, disability studies, religious cultures, gender studies, queer studies, and social justice.  The Musicology Division inspires students to adopt a far-reaching, interdisciplinary vision in their work.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Arts
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Options
Academic Unit
School of Music
Specialization
Musicology
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
School
School of Music
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 90
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
A B.Mus or B.A. degree with completion of specific courses.
Course Requirements
The candidate must possess a B.Mus. or B.A. degree which entails completion of the following U.B.C. courses or their equivalents: Music 100/101/105, 200/201/205, 300, and two of 410-415, 120/121, 220/221 and 241. In addition, at least three of the upper level history courses (350, 352, 353, 354, 355, 356, 357) are essential.
Document Requirements
A paper, or papers, dealing with some aspect of musicology that is representative of your work to date.
A Statement of Intent. Your Statement of Intent should outline areas of interest, current and future research plans, and why you feel that UBC would be a suitable place to pursue your degree program.
Contact: Dr. Alex Fisher (Tel: 604-822-3524)
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
10 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
21 December 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
21 December 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Musicology (MA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Highlights
Prof. Alex Fisher
“Thesaurus litaniarium: The Symbolism and Practice of Musical Litanies in Counter-Reformation
Germany.” Early Music History 34 (2015): 45-95.
Music, Piety, and Propaganda: The Soundscapes of Counter-Reformation Bavaria. New York:
Oxford University Press, 2014.
Music and Religious Identity in Counter-Reformation Augsburg, 1580-1630.  Aldershot: Ashgate
Press, 2004.
“Thesaurus litaniarium: The Symbolism and Practice of Musical Litanies in Counter-Reformation
Germany.” Early Music History 34 (2015): 45-95.
“Per mia particolare devotione: Orlando di Lasso’s Lagrime di San Pietro and Jesuit Spirituality in
Counter-Reformation Munich.” Journal of the Royal Musical Association 132 (2007): 167–220.
Prof. Hedy Law
Music, Pantomime, and Freedom in Enlightenment France.  Woodbridge, Suffolk: Boydell Press,
2020.
“Music, Bacchus, and Freedom.” In Oxford Handbook of Music and the Body, edited by Youn
Kim and Sander L. Gilman, 161–176. New York: Oxford University Press, 2019.
“Harpocrates at Work: How the God of Silence Protected Eighteenth-Century French
Iconoclasts.” In Oxford Handbook of Music and Censorship, edited by Patricia Hall, 153–174. New York: Oxford University Press, 2017.
“Composing Citoyennes through Sapho (1794).” The Opera Quarterly 32, no.1 (Winter 2016): 5–
28.
Prof. Claudio Vellutini
“Donizetti, Vienna, Cosmopolitanism," Journal of the American Musicological Society 73 (2020),
1-52
"Interpreting the Italian Voice in London (and Elsewhere), in London Voices, 1820-1840: Vocal
Performers, Practices, Histories, ed. by Roger Parker and Susan Rutherford: 51-69. Chicago and London: The University of Chicago Press, 2019.
"Fanny Tacchinardi-Persiani, Carlo Balocchino, and Italian Opera Business in Vienna, Paris, and
London (1837-1845)," Cambridge Opera Journal 30 (2019): 259-304.
"Opera and Monuments: Verdi's Ernani in Vienna and the Construction of Dynastic
Memory," Cambridge Opera Journal 29 (2017): 215-39.
David Metzer
“Repeated Borrowing: The Case of ‘Es ist genug.’” Journal of the American Musicological Society
71 (2018): 703-48.
The Ballad in American Popular Music: From Elvis to Beyoncé.  Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 2017.
Musical Modernism at the Turn of the Twenty-First Century.  Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 2009.
Quotation and Cultural Meaning in Twentieth-Century Music.  Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 2003.
Research Focus
Each of the four members of the Musicology Division has distinctive areas of expertise. Prof. Alex Fisher concentrates on aspects of religious culture and sound studies in music of the early modern period. He also leads the Early Music Ensemble. Prof. Hedy Law studies 18th-century French music, examining issues related to the Enlightenment, citizenship, and dance and bodily movement. Prof. Vellutini focuses on 19th-century Italian music, especially the transnationalism of Italian opera, opera singers and productions, and cosmopolitanism. Prof. David Metzer studies aspects of aesthetics, emotional expression, and social justice in classical and popular music of the 20th and 21st centuries. The Division has supervised theses dealing with topics across a broad range of periods, genres, and critical issues.
Program Components
Prescribed curricula are flexible, providing latitude to meet diverse individual needs. A thesis is required and the program is normally of two-year’s duration.
Research Facilities
From the state-of-the-art Chan Centre for Performing Arts, one of North America's premier musical venues, to the historic Old Auditorium, intimate Roy Barnett Recital Hall and university-wide facilities such as the Emerging Media Labs, musicology graduate students at UBC have access to world-class facilities.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
Students admitted to the School of Music’s graduate programs are automatically considered for scholarships under the GSI (Graduate Support Initiative) program. These competitive awards typically range from $1,000 to 12,000 and are guaranteed for two to four years.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
Graduates of UBC’s graduate programs in musicology have obtained professional positions at the University of Toronto, University of Victoria, University of Cincinnati, Indiana University, the City University of New York, the City University of London, and elsewhere.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Musicology (MA). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
3
10
9
10
4
Offers
1
3
2
2
1
New Registrations
0
2
1
1
0
Total Enrolment
2
4
3
2
2
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Musicology (MA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
Sample Thesis Submissions
The queen of African pop : representations of gender, race, and cultural identity in Brenda Fassie's music
Preservation through performance : self-organization and self-sustaining of Vancouver and Victoria Chinatown communities beyond the Cantonese opera stage (1920-1939)
Onstage voices, offstage bodies : Restoration singer-actresses and the actress/whore complex
Credo in unum deum : situating Bach's B-minor Mass within a Dresden context
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Music, Emphasis Musicology (PhD)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Musical Arts in Composition (DMA)
Doctor of Musical Arts in Orchestral Instrument (DMA)
Doctor of Musical Arts in Piano (DMA)
Doctor of Musical Arts in Voice (DMA)
Doctor of Philosophy in Music, Emphasis Ethnomusicology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Music, Emphasis Theory (PhD)
Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Ethnomusicology (MA)
Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Theory (MA)
Master of Music in Composition (MMUS)
Master of Music in Conducting (Emphasis Choral Conducting) (MMUS)
Master of Music in Conducting (Emphasis Orchestral Conducting) (MMUS)
Master of Music in Conducting (Emphasis Wind Conducting) (MMUS)
Master of Music in Guitar (MMUS)
Master of Music in Harpsichord (MMUS)
Master of Music in Historical Performance Practice (MMUS)
Master of Music in Opera (MMUS)
Master of Music in Orchestral Instrument (MMUS)
Master of Music in Organ (MMUS)
Master of Music in Piano (MMUS)
Master of Music in Voice (MMUS)
Further Information
Specialization
Musicology
Musicology involves the scholarly study of music in its historical and cultural contexts. At the UBC School of Music, faculty and students in the Musicology division explore a wide range of repertory and performance practices ranging from the Middle Ages to the present day.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/music
Program Website
https://music.ubc.ca/graduate/master-of-arts/historical-musicology/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Arts
Academic Unit
School of Music
Program Identifier
VGMMAA-MUER6
Classification
Musicology and ethnomusicology
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
10 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
International Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/UBC.School.of.Music/
https://www.instagram.com/ubc_music/
https://twitter.com/ubc_music/
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCrxOBzoHpZ9WyC783a0Wd-Q/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Considering UBC for your graduate studies?
Here, you can choose from more than 300 graduate degree program options and 2000+ research supervisors. You can even design your own program.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC