Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-health-administration

Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Health Administration (MHA)
Master of Health Administration (MHA)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Master of Health Administration (MHA) is a 24-month professional program for clinicians, managers and researchers who are seeking solutions to today’s complex health delivery issues. Combining health systems, policies and management, our unique curriculum offers the educational and professional foundations required for leadership in health care. Our weekend modular format allows you to study while continuing to build your career. With our compressed format, you attend class every 3-4 weeks. Classes are typically held at UBC’s Robson Square campus located in downtown Vancouver.
To learn more about how you can accelerate your career in health leadership with the Master of Health Administration, visit our program details page.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Delivered by instructors from the School of Population and Public Health, Sauder School of Business and industry experts, you will benefit by learning from the professional expertise of leaders in healthcare and business. You’ll complete MHA courses that provide the big picture of health care, while gaining essential skills for management and leadership.
My UBC degree undoubtedly enabled me to be a competitive applicant for my current role and I anticipate that it will open up other collaborative research opportunities in the future.
Ikennah Browne
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Medicine
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Major Project/Essay required
Academic Unit
School of Population and Public Health
Specialization
Health Administration
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $16,345.60 | International: $30,786.70
School
School of Population and Public Health
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
Prospective applicants are encouraged to review the MHA website for guidance on preparing their application including supporting documents.
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.5
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE or a comparable test is required. Please check the program website.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 November 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 March 2025
Transcript Deadline:
01 March 2025
Referee Deadline:
08 March 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 February 2025
Transcript Deadline:
01 February 2025
Referee Deadline:
08 February 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Course-based programs do not have a thesis component. While they may assign academic advisors to students, they do
not
require applicants to reach out to individual professors / faculty members to seek commitment as their thesis supervisor. Please do not contact faculty members for the purposes of thesis supervision if you are applying to this program.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Focus
Epidemiology, clinical epidemiology, biostatistics, community health, global health, health services management and planning, health services research, health-care policy, occupational and environmental health, and preventive medicine and health promotion.
Program Components
In addition to the MHA courses, students also complete a 6 credit research project, SPHA 590. The final MHA project is a student’s capstone and is a required course for the Master of Health Administration. Students present a written report of substantial examination of a relevant pre-approved topic in health care. Topics can be drawn from any aspect of the student’s graduate program or professional experience and plans, and will tend to be oriented to problems and issues of professional practice in health care administration.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$163.25
$163.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$5,448.54
$10,262.22
Program Fee
$32,691.24
$61,573.32
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$1000.00
$1000.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
Our graduates are innovative thinkers and natural leaders, with an eye toward the future of health care. Most MHA students complete the program as mid-career professionals working in the health care sector. Graduates work in a variety of settings including hospitals, physician practices, ambulatory medical/surgical centers, rehabilitation facilities, home care, long-term care organizations, health consultancies, public health agencies, managed care organizations, private sector industries and in many other health-related fields.
Graduating with their MHA degree affords students the career mobility to explore new areas of work in a leadership capacity, either within their current organization or a new employer. Our alumni stand out as health care leaders working across the province, Canada and the world.
Alumni on Success
Emily Wale
Job Title
Project Manager, Medical Advisory Committee
Employer
Vancouver Coastal Health
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Health Administration (MHA). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
83
76
86
98
72
Offers
43
37
35
41
36
New Registrations
35
30
32
38
34
Total Enrolment
82
87
87
86
69
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
95%
based on 126 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 128 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.63 years and the maximum time is 3.76 years with an average of
2.18 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Population and Public Health (PhD)
Master of Global Health (MGH)
Master of Health Science (MHSc)
Master of Public Health (MPH)
Master of Public Health and Master of Science in Nursing (MPH/MSN)
Master of Science in Occupational and Environmental Hygiene (MSc)
Master of Science in Population and Public Health (MSc)
Further Information
Specialization
Health Administration
Health Administration provides clinicians, managers and researchers who are seeking solutions to today’s complex health delivery issues with the educational and professional foundation skills required for leadership in health care. It combines health systems, policies and management.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/population-and-public-health
Program Website
https://spph.ubc.ca/programs/mha/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Medicine
Academic Unit
School of Population and Public Health
Program Identifier
VGMMHA
Classification
Health care administration
Program Website
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 November 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 March 2025
International Applicant Deadline
01 February 2025
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/UBC.SPPH/
https://www.linkedin.com/school/ubc-school-of-population-and-public-health/
https://twitter.com/ubcspph/
https://www.youtube.com/ubcspph1/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver