Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-arts-gender-race-sexuality-social-justice

Master of Arts in Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice (MA)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Arts in Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice (MA)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The MA program at the Institute for Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice is a vibrant, interdisciplinary graduate program, that attracts excellent scholars from around the world. Our MA program incorporates research and theory from the social sciences, humanities, science, education, and law. MA students are engaged in theoretical and empirical work that contributes to the advancement of current knowledge and relevant dialogues around culture, politics and public policy in local, global and transnational contexts. Subjects of exploration include: critical race theory, ethnic studies, indigenous studies, media studies, feminist politics and methodologies, health, history and autobiography, international development, literature/film and cultural studies, migration and racialization, gender, sexuality, social justice, social policy and community action.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The Institute for Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice at UBC joins other higher learning institutions globally in support of a multidisciplinary field of scholarship and collaboration. Our Institute’s graduate and research program initiatives are strongly collaborative in nature, with opportunities for graduate students to interact with other students and faculty on shared themes of interest. Being interdisciplinary in nature, there is also participation from across UBC departments and units, providing key avenues to extend networks across the campus community and beyond. Many of our faculty and students are heavily engaged in community based research and teaching.
Our research and teaching programs reflect the unique diversity in interdisciplinary thought and practice, and are central to UBC’s strategic initiatives of Aboriginal Engagement, Intercultural Understanding, International Engagement, and Social Sustainability.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Arts
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Options
Academic Unit
Institute for Gender, Race, Sex and Social Justice
Specialization
Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 90
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
20 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
01 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
08 December 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
01 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
08 December 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Arts in Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice (MA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. However, it is not necessary for applicants to contact faculty members prior to their application.
Criminal Record Check
Students may elect to take a practicum that will require a
criminal record check
.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
The M.A. program in Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice will prepare students for employment in the public or private sector, or to pursue further studies in a Ph.D. program. Recent graduates have taken positions at the Department of Natural Resources Canada, BC Society of Transition Houses, University of Waterloo's Career Services, WorkSafe BC, and many other organizations. Those looking to pursue a Ph.D. have gone on to study at the University of Manchester, York, Stanford, Simon Fraser University, University of Oregon, as well as UBC.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Arts in Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice (MA). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
102
107
123
88
70
Offers
10
14
7
21
13
New Registrations
5
8
5
7
4
Total Enrolment
19
18
18
15
16
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
84%
based on 31 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 16 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.7 years and the maximum time is 5.8 years with an average of
2.89 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Arts in Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice (MA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. However, it is not necessary for applicants to contact faculty members prior to their application.
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Angeles, Leonora
(Gender analysis, gender mainstreaming and other gender planning related tools, including feminist critiques and perspectives on the intergration of  gender and other social axes of difference and diversity in community planning and international development work)
Catungal, John Paul
(queer of colour geographies, critical race and ethnic studies, diaspora and transnationalism, critical pedagogy, the scholarship of teaching and learning, and the lived geographies of sexual and racial minorities in educational spaces)
Chaudhry, Ayesha
(Islam, Muslims, religion, gender, human rights, family and children, discrimination, social justice )
Ferreira da Silva, Denise
(ethical questions of the global present and target the metaphysical and ontoepistemological dimensions of modern thought; Critical Racial and Ethnic Studies, Feminist Theory, Critical Legal Theory, Political Theory, Moral Philosophy, Postcolonial Studies, and Latin American & Caribbean Studies)
Harris, Leila
(Critical identity, ethnic and race studies; Gender, sexuality and education; Human rights, justice, and ethical issues; Africa; Development Policies; Drinking Water; Environmental justice; equity and social justice; Ethics and Fundamental Issues of Law and Justice; Fresh Water; Gender Relationship; gender and social difference; Ghana; International development; participatory resource management; Resources Management; Social Contract and Social Justice; Social and Cultural Factors of Environmental Protection; South Africa; Turkey and Middle East; Water; water governance; water politics)
Mahtani, Minelle
(critical mixed race theory; cultural forgetting; Social justice)
Patterson, Christopher
(Transpacific discourses of literature, games, and films)
Pierre, Jemima
(relationship of political economy to race; migration, transnationalism, and diaspora; ethics and politics of western knowledge production and disciplinary formation)
Puar, Jasbir
Riano-Alcala, Pilar
(Lived experience of violence, Historical Memory and the politics of commemoration and witnessing, Forced migration (internal displacement and refuge), Critical and participatory methodologies, Community organizing, everyday resistance and social repair, Public art)
Sia, Rosanne
(Sociology; Cold War cultural history; Performance studies; critical race studies; queer studies)
Sample Thesis Submissions
Borders, identity and belonging: navigating Levantine refugee and forced migrant solidarity with Indigenous communities on Coast Salish lands
Empowered identities : queer magic and epistemic justice
Asserting rangatiratanga and kaitiakitanga in response to colonialism, capitalism, and climate change : the case of Ngāi Tahu
On Vietnamese Canadian futurities : generational and temporal invocations of refugeeness
Plant-based research : a queer master's thesis born of mass extinction
Encountering violence : the stories of gender nonbinary Indigenous, Black and people of colour (IBPOC)
"From Nowhere to Somewhere" : the desires of a black transman's futurity
Transformative justice responses to gender-based violence, intimate partner violence, and sexual violence
To be safe and included : SOGI 1 2 3 and the (re)production of the acceptable queer subject
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice (PhD)
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Master of Arts in Community Engagement, Social Change, Equity (MA)
Further Information
Specialization
Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice
Faculty expertise in Gender, Race, Sexuality and Social Justice include gender and development, critical studies in sexuality, decolonizing and post-colonial methodologies, race, gender and cultural studies (including Asia), critical race theory, gender and Canadian history and literature (in English and French), transgender studies, gender issues in health, and feminist legal studies.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/gender-race-sexuality-and-social-justice
Program Website
https://grsj.arts.ubc.ca/graduate/masters-program/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Arts
Academic Unit
Institute for Gender, Race, Sex and Social Justice
Program Identifier
VGMMAA-LC
Classification
Gender psychology
Sexual identy, sexual attraction and sexual behaviour
Gender, sexuality and education
Race and ethnic relations
Anthropology of sex and gender
Gender studies
Philosophy of sexuality
Human rights, justice, and ethical issues
Critical identity, ethnic and race studies
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
20 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
International Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/SocialJusticeInstituteUBC/
https://twitter.com/grsjinstitute/
https://www.youtube.com/c/SocialJusticeInstituteUBC/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
The city and the sea
Take a break from studying with opportunities at your fingertips. Whether you want to settle down in a café or take your research outdoors, we have a place for you.