Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-arts-political-science

Master of Arts in Political Science (MA)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Arts in Political Science (MA)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Department of Political Science offers Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy degree programs that are structured around five substantive fields: Canadian politics, international relations, comparative politics, political theory, and U.S. Politics. We offer in the range of 25 graduate seminar courses per year and ample support for mentoring grad students in their professional development, through research collaboration, workshops, and colloquia. We have very successful doctoral graduates, judged by our record of placing graduates in academic positions in Canada, the United States, Great Britain, Australia, and elsewhere.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
One of the key criteria that sets the Political Science department at UBC apart is the methodological breadth and diversity of research interests of faculty members, using both quantitative and qualitative methods. We have particular strengths for graduate students in:
indigenous politics, with indigenous faculty members in two different subfields
critical political theory and identity politics
democratic theory and practise
political behaviour, parties and elections
comparative public policy and institutions
migration, social diversity, and identity
environmental politics
international norms, institutions and goverance, and human security.
Quantitative Methods: we are particularly strong on quantitative methods for students using this kind of approach, with the deepest lineup of persons engaged in systematic quantitative research and the country’s most robust sequence of graduate methods courses for those students wishing to acquire a sophisticated understanding of quantitative analysis.
Regional Area Strengths: we are exceptionally strong in the study of Asian politics, the politics of the Americas, European politics, U.S. politics, and Canadian politics.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Arts
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Thesis required
Academic Unit
Department of Political Science
Specialization
Political Science
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 92
Reading
22
Writing
25
Speaking
23
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is required by some applicants. Please check the program website.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 June 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
07 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
14 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
14 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
07 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
14 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
14 January 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Arts in Political Science (MA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Focus
Canadian Politics: federalism, the Canadian electoral system, the constitution, the courts, electoral reform, parliamentary institutions, political parties, Canadian public policy, Canadian political thought, voting behaviour Comparative Politics: democratization and democratic institutions, state-society relations, comparative public policy, comparative political economy, constitutional design and comparative political institutions, executive politics, separation of powers, governance, non-governmental organizations, and immigration politics International Relations: International Relations Theory, International Political Economy, International Security, International Law and Organization, International Norms, Human Security, the politics of international law, and global governance Political Theory: democratic theory, liberalism, constitutionalism, human rights, feminism, multiculturalism, nationalism, identity politics, critical theory, history of political thought.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
We offer full TA funding to incoming MA students.  We also offer some additional fellowship funding to our top candidates, including tuition coverage and Research Assistantships, if and when available.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
Our MA students have been highly successful in pursuing both academic and non-academic careers.
In recent years, approximately one-third of MA graduates from our program have gone on to pursue a PhD. Many have been offered PhD admission at US institutions such as Duke University, University of California San Diego, University of Michigan, Brown University, John Hopkins University, Northwestern University, University of Wisconsin; many have been admitted at Canadian institutions, such as University of Toronto, University of British Columbia, and Queen’s University; and some have been admitted to programs outside North American such as Cambridge University.
Many of our MA graduates have gone on to careers in the worlds of policy, politics, and NGOs, within Canada and internationally. Past MA students have taken jobs as policy analysts, planners, data analysts, researchers, and consultants. They have gone on to work for government agencies, NGOs, and private sector employers including the United Nations Development Program, the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement, Statistics Canada, the Institute for Canadian Citizenship, Public Services and Procurement Canada, the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia, the First Nations Health Authority, the City of Vancouver, and the Royal Bank of Canada.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Arts in Political Science (MA). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
169
178
256
161
153
Offers
39
20
43
28
38
New Registrations
14
17
19
25
19
Total Enrolment
30
35
45
48
35
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
90%
based on 77 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 73 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.02 years and the maximum time is 4.46 years with an average of
1.6 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Arts in Political Science (MA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Afsahi, Afsoun
(Democratic theory and practice, Gender in politics, Challenges, opportunities, and best methods of inclusion, Representation of marginalized communities in democratic decision-making processes)
Arneil, Barbara
(Identity politics, history of political thought)
Baier, Gerald
(Canadian politics, federalism, constitutional law, courts, federal-provincial relations, Constitution, federalism and public law in Canada)
Baum, Bruce
(Political Culture, Society and Ideology; critical social theory; feminist theory; critical hermeneutics; issues of cross-cultural interpretation; American political thought and cultural politics; political theories of Mill and Marx; philosophy of political inquiry; liberal and democratic theory)
Bloemraad, Irene
(consequences of migration on politics and understandings of membershi; immigrants become incorporated into political communities; intersection of migration studies and political sociology)
Borwein, Sophie
(intersection of political economy, political behaviour, and public policy)
Byers, Michael
(International relations; Public international law (except international trade law); international law; international relations; Outer Space; Arctic; Law of the Sea; Laws of War; International Human Rights; International Environmental Law)
Cameron, Maxwell
(Political science; Political Regimes (Democracy, Monarchy, Federalism, Parliamentarism, etc.); Social Organization and Political Systems; Comparative Politics; Democratization; Latin America; Practical wisdom)
Chowdhury, Arjun
(Failed states, intervention, civil war, autocrats, revolution. )
Coleman, Katharina Pichler
(International organizations, international relations, international security/peace operations, interntional rules, noms and legitimacy, sun-Saharan Africa)
Coulthard, Glen
(First Nations politics – national; political theory )
Cutler, Frederick
(Social movements and democracy; public opinion; Political Methodology; Canadian Politics; Elections; Electoral Systems; Federalism; Academic Publishing Systems)
Dauvergne, Peter
(Social sciences; international relations; global environmental politics; sustainability governance; global South; Developing countries; transnational corporations; technology; consumption; Plastic Pollution; social movements; environmentalism; activism; deforestation)
Doberstein, Carey
(Political science and policy administration; Agencies and arms-length bodies in Canada; Public servant behavior in Canada; How citizens engage with government as part of local consultations and public engagement; Homelessness (politics, governance, policy); Local government or governance)
Ellermann, Antje
(Political science; Migrations, Populations, Cultural Exchanges; Migratory Flows; Public Policies; Identity and Transnationality; Role of Governments and Institutions; Comparative Public Policy; Migration and Citizenship)
Givens, Terri Elizabeth
Harrison, Kathryn
(Canadian politics, environmental politics, environmental policy, climate change, global warming, climate change policy, Canadian public policy)
Hopkins, Vincent
(Political science; Democratic theory and practice; Federalism and Local Politics; Migration Policy and Politics; Public Management; public opinion)
Huebner, Kurt
(European integration; euro and global currency regimes; international trade and fdi; sustainability and innovation policies; global macroeconomics;European politics, Money and currency regimes, politics and economics of European integration as well as on contradictions and complementarities of sustainability and international competitiveness)
Hummel, Calla
(Why and how communities with little political power organize and negotiate with their governments, Civil society, LGBTQ+ policy, Labor politics, Health policy, Latin American politics)
Jacobs, Alan Michael
(Political science; Social Organization and Political Systems; economic inequality; Political economy; public opinion; Public Policy; Research Methodology)
Janara, Laura
(Language and symbolism especially in gendered and familial thinking, politcal theory)
Jeong, Gyung-Ho
(Political science; Social Organization and Political Systems; Congress; Foreign Policy; Immigration Policy; Legislative Politics; Public Choice; Trade Policy; US politics)
Jurkevics, Anna
(critical theory, democratic theory, and the history of German political thought)
Kam, Christopher
(Nature and evolution of parliamentary democracy, historical development of institutions)
Pages
1
2
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
A sea that receives all rivers : rethinking fan activism through the transnational circulation and translation of danmei cyberliterature
Ambivalence and complexity in cultural conflict : parents' views on sexual orientation and gender identity education in British Columbia
From "the Blacks" to Trump's African Americans : investigating the socioeconomic factors behind young Black men's support for Donald Trump
Cosmic oversight : examining the US Federal Communications Commission’s regulation of the environmental impacts of satellite mega-constellations
Testing the efficacy of an election misinformation fact check
Answering only to legitimate laws : societal triggers towards the sovereign citizen movement in Canada
Deservingness and citizen preferences towards verification procedures for social assistance
Stalling as success : MINURSO, legitimacy, and French influence in the UN Security Council
Speaking and drawing out : graphic novels to track and resist the silencing of transgender youth
Collaborative rebuilding for long-term peace : reconceptualizing landmine clearance strategies to promote the rights of displaced populations
Open doors, closed debates : the evolution of responsiveness in 1980s Singapore
Veto points, interest groups, and environmental policy instruments
Climate change and the shifting cost-benefit calculus of economic development in the Russian Far East and High Arctic
Populist memory politics and partisan immigration agendas in contemporary Germany
Politics, law, and the challenge of social media misinformation : canadian policy in comparative context
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Political Science (PhD)
Related Disciplines
Master of Arts in Economics (MA)
Master of Arts in Geography (MA)
Master of Arts in History (MA)
Master of Arts in Interdisciplinary Studies (MA)
Master of Science in Geography (MSc)
Master of Science in Interdisciplinary Studies (MSc)
Further Information
Specialization
Political Science
The program covers the following subjects:
indigenous politics, with indigenous faculty members in two different subfields
critical political theory and identity politics
democratic theory and practise
political behaviour, parties and elections
comparative public policy and institutions
migration, social diversity, and identity
environmental politics
international norms, institutions and goverance, and human security.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/political-science
Program Website
https://politics.ubc.ca/graduate/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Arts
Academic Unit
Department of Political Science
Program Identifier
VGMMAA-UF
Classification
Political science
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 June 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
07 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
07 January 2025
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/UBCPoliSci/
https://twitter.com/ubcpolisci/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Experience the colours of Vancouver
Great academic programs, great location: the distinct seasons and mild climate are among the reasons why graduate students choose to study here -- from the autumn leaves to cherry blossoms, witness the many colours Vancouver has to offer.