Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-arts-music-ethnomusicology

Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Ethnomusicology (MA)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Ethnomusicology (MA)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The program can accommodate interests in ethnomusicology’s wide range of geographic areas and intellectual issues. We strongly encourage performance, close interaction with related disciplines (anthropology, area studies, sociology, linguistics, etc.), as well as border crossing within music (composition, theory, and historical musicology).
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
We balance diverse aspects of ethnomusicology by stressing performance, music transcription, theory and analysis, and social and intellectual history equally. We collaborate regularly with music theory, historical musicology, and composition divisions in the School of Music, and are linked to Area Studies and other departments across the university. Our goal for every student is to communicate our dedication to and love for the musics of the world, and to encourage original, critical, and constructive writing on music that will enable graduates to contribute actively to scholarship, education, and the cultures of world musics around us. The ethnomusicology students and faculty comprise a small community, but our time together is intense and vibrant, and excellent work is being done.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Arts
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Options
Academic Unit
School of Music
Specialization
Ethnomusicology
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
School
School of Music
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for January 2026
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 90
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
The applicant must ordinarily possess a B.Mus., B.S. or B.A. degree
Course Requirements
The applicant must ordinarily possess a B.Mus., B.S., or B.A. degree and demonstrate strengths in a range of musical skills, including musicianship, transcription, and analysis, as well as prose writing skills. No rigid prerequisites are specified but a music major is strongly recommended, including courses in World Music Cultures and close study of individual world areas. Solid grounding in performance and/or fieldwork is an asset. Applicants should demonstrate interest in the practice and perspectives of ethnomusicology in its broadest senses, including its place (and the place of music) in the history of ideas and cultural relations. Predetermination of a focused research topic can certainly be helpful but is not expected at this stage. Sustained interest in European Art Music may prove beneficial. It is also recognized that ethnomusicology is closely related to other disciplines, such as anthropology, sociology, folklore, Asian studies (or other area studies), and linguistics. Students with Bachelor's degrees in these disciplines are encouraged to consider this program and discuss its prerequisites prior to application.
Document Requirements
Follow the general graduate application guidelines in How to Apply and in addition: Submit a maximum of two papers dealing with a topic in music that is representative of work to date.
Submit at answer to each of the following questions (max. 300 words per question):
What are your strengths as a musician?
What would you like to work on?
What kinds of musical activities do you especially enjoy and why?
Describe two books or articles about music you have particularly learned from or been stimulated by.
Name some music you particularly admire and explain why. What draws you to music scholarship?
A transcription exercise will be required of all applicants to the program. This exercise will become available on the Ethnomusicology website the first or second weekend after the deadline for the application; applicants will be contacted by the department with further instructions. Most students will use standard Western notation, but modified Western notation or other systems are acceptable.
Other Requirements
The applicant must demonstrate strength in a range of musical skills and prose writing skills.
2) Meet Deadlines
January 2026 Intake
Application Open Date
10 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
21 December 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
15 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
21 December 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Ethnomusicology (MA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Highlights
Nathan Hesselink
"Catching a Groove: Stan Lynch's Relationship with Time." Classic Drummer(forthcoming)
"From Point Grey to Little Mountain: Connections and Intersections between UBC Music and Little Mountain Sound."MUSICultures (forthcoming)
Springate, Michael and Nathan Hesselink. “Küt: Shock and Awe.” In Revolt/Compassion: Six Scripts for Contemporary Performance, by Michael Springate, 259-84. Toronto: Guernica Editions, 2019.
“The Ethnomusicologist as Composer.” Music and Culture 31:31-44 (2014).
“Rhythmic Play, Compositional Intent, and Communication in Rock Music. Popular Music33.1:69-90 (2014).
“Radiohead’s ‘Pyramid Song’: Ambiguity, Rhythm, and Participation.” Music Theory Online 19.1.3 [13,500 words] (2013).
SamulNori: Contemporary Korean Drumming and the Rebirth of Itinerant Performance Culture.Chicago Series in Ethnomusicology. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2012. (201 pp.)
“ ‘Yŏngdong Nongak’: Mountains, Music, and the SamulNori Canon.” Acts Koreana 12.1:1-26 (2009).
“Taking Culture Seriously: Democratic Music and its Transformative Potential in South Korea.” TheWorld of Music 49.3:75-106 (2008).
“SamulNori, Wŏn-Pang-Kak,and Cosmological Didacticism.” Yearbook for Traditional Music 39:140-61 (2007).
P’ungmul: South Korean Drumming and Dance. Chicago Series in Ethnomusicology. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2006. (296 pp.)
“ ‘The Formation of Namsadang(Korean Itinerant Performer) Troupes’: Chapter One A Study of Namsadang Troupes,” by Shim Usŏng. Translated, edited, and with an Introduction by Nathan Hesselink. Acts Koreana 9.2:31-57 (2006).
“Samul norias Traditional: Preservation and Innovation in a South Korean Contemporary Percussion Genre.”Ethnomusicology 48.3:405-39 (2004).
Contemporary Directions: Korean Folk Music Engaging the Twentieth Century and Beyond. Korea Research Monograph 27. Berkeley: University of California Press, 2001. (262 pp.)
Michael Tenzer
2019. “That’s All it Does: Steve Reich and Balinese Gamelan Music.” In S.Gopinath, and P. Siôn, eds., Rethinking Steve Reich. New York: Oxford. p. 303-322.
2019.“How Many Kinds of Rhythm are There?” In A. Hamilton and M. Paddison, eds., Philosophy of Rhythm, New York: Oxford. p.199-215.
2018.  “Polyphony.” In A. Rehding and Steven Rings, eds., The Oxford Handbook of Basic Concepts in Music Theory. New York: Oxford. p. 597-641.
2018.“Chasing the Phantom: Features of a Supracultural New Music.” Music Theory Online 24/1.
http://mtosmt.org/issues/mto.18.24.1/mto.18.24.1.tenzer.html
2017. “Transforming African Music Cycles.” Music Theory Spectrum Vol. 39, 2., p.  139-157.
2017. “In Honor of What We Can’t Groove To Yet.” In Robin Moore, ed. College Music Curricula for a New Century. New York: Oxford, p. 169-190.
2015. “Meditations on Objective Aesthetics in World Music.” Ethnomusicology, 59/1, p. 1-30.
2011. Analytical and Cross-Cultural Studies in World Music ( with co- editor John Roeder) New York: Oxford
2009. Let Others Name You. (compositions) New World Records Recorded Anthology of American Music CD80697
2006. Analytical Studies in World Music. (ed.) New York: Oxford.
2000. Gamelan Gong Kebyar: The Art of Twentieth Century Balinese Music. Chicago: University of Chicago
Research Focus
Our primary regional specialties are Bali/Indonesia (Tenzer) and Korea/East Asia and Great Britain (Hesselink), but we pursue research on many kinds of music and have supervised work on Sri Lanka, Ghana, Zambia, Iran, Czech Republic, Brazil, Morocco, Japan and more. We especially welcome students with an advanced grounding in a tradition whose inner workings they seek to uncover.
Research Facilities
From the state-of-the-art Chan Centre for Performing Arts, one of North America's premier musical venues, to the historic Old Auditorium and intimate Roy Barnett Recital Hall, to university-wide resources such as the Emerging Media Labs, graduate students in Ethnomusicology have access to world-class facilities.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
Students admitted to the School of Music’s graduate programs are automatically considered for scholarships under the GSI (Graduate Support Initiative) program. These competitive awards typically range from $1,000 to 12,000 and are guaranteed for two to four years.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
Our recent PhDs have been successful in landing tenure-track positions at major universities including MIT, University of Waterloo, UC Davis, Tennessee State, and the Indonesian Institute of the Arts. Others have gone into music and film production. Some MA students continue to PhDs elsewhere or move on to other fields including law, arts administration, coding, and more.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Ethnomusicology (MA). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
10
6
11
12
0
Offers
2
0
1
2
0
New Registrations
2
0
0
2
0
Total Enrolment
2
0
1
3
4
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
100%
based on 5 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 6 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.7 years and the maximum time is 5.8 years with an average of
3.01 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Ethnomusicology (MA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
Sample Thesis Submissions
Not an isolated event : a survey of Korean drumming in North America
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Music, Emphasis Ethnomusicology (PhD)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Musical Arts in Composition (DMA)
Doctor of Musical Arts in Orchestral Instrument (DMA)
Doctor of Musical Arts in Piano (DMA)
Doctor of Musical Arts in Voice (DMA)
Doctor of Philosophy in Music, Emphasis Musicology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Music, Emphasis Theory (PhD)
Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Musicology (MA)
Master of Arts in Music, Emphasis Theory (MA)
Master of Music in Composition (MMUS)
Master of Music in Conducting (Emphasis Choral Conducting) (MMUS)
Master of Music in Conducting (Emphasis Orchestral Conducting) (MMUS)
Master of Music in Conducting (Emphasis Wind Conducting) (MMUS)
Master of Music in Guitar (MMUS)
Master of Music in Harpsichord (MMUS)
Master of Music in Historical Performance Practice (MMUS)
Master of Music in Opera (MMUS)
Master of Music in Orchestral Instrument (MMUS)
Master of Music in Organ (MMUS)
Master of Music in Piano (MMUS)
Master of Music in Voice (MMUS)
Further Information
Specialization
Ethnomusicology
The ethnomusicology program accommodates interests in the discipline’s wide range of geographic areas and intellectual issues. We strongly encourage performance, close interaction with related disciplines (anthropology, area studies, sociology, linguistics, etc.), as well as border-crossing within music (composition, theory, and historical musicology).
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/music
Program Website
https://music.ubc.ca/graduate/master-of-arts/ethnomusicology/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Arts
Academic Unit
School of Music
Program Identifier
VGMMAA-MUEH8
Classification
Musicology and ethnomusicology
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for January 2026
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
January 2026 Intake
Application Open Date
10 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
International Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/UBC.School.of.Music/
https://www.instagram.com/ubc_music/
https://twitter.com/ubc_music/
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCrxOBzoHpZ9WyC783a0Wd-Q/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Start calling Vancouver “Home”
The metropolitan area is known for its diversity and UBC is one of the most international universities in Canada. This multicultural community means we have a wide range of restaurants, grocery stores, and events to provide a sense of belonging.
Learn more about life in Vancouver