Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-advanced-studies-architecture

Master of Advanced Studies in Architecture (MASA)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Advanced Studies in Architecture (MASA)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Master of Advanced Studies in Architecture (MASA) is a post-professional research degree offered in a two-year curriculum. Students work in independent design or research-based studies in collaboration with faculty members engaged in certain research themes. This immersive program is for those who wish to synthesize existing knowledge in architecture and progress contemporary concepts in the field. Within the wider University community, students engage themselves in a focused research environment enriched by resources and support from related disciplines such as community and regional planning, civil engineering, geography, and art history, visual and theory.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
Program Structure
Students must complete a minimum of 30 credits including the following: a 3-credit course in research methodology in architecture, 15 credits of approved coursework, and a 12-credit thesis.
The degree can be completed in 16 months with two terms of full-time residency required.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Applied Science
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Thesis required
Academic Unit
School of Architecture & Landscape Architecture
Specialization
Architecture
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
School
School of Architecture and Landscape Architecture
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.5
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is optional.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
The MASA program is intended for qualified applicants with a previous professional degree and a capacity for independent research.
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
15 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
30 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
15 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
30 January 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Advanced Studies in Architecture (MASA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Supplementary fees (yearly)
$350.00 Student Society Fees
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Advanced Studies in Architecture (MASA). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
43
58
44
32
48
Offers
4
5
4
2
7
New Registrations
2
3
4
1
5
Total Enrolment
5
7
6
7
9
Completion Rates & Times
Based on 12 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.24 years and the maximum time is 6.83 years with an average of
2.26 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Advanced Studies in Architecture (MASA)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Abughannam, Rana
(socio-political conditions that govern architecture and urbanity)
Bass, John
(Constested landscapes Globalization and Contested Territory, Infrastructure, Social Equity, Visualization and Community Engagement)
Dahmen, Joseph
(technical methods and cultural effects of resource use at the scales of architecture and territory.)
Fujita, Mari
(Globalization and contested territory, urbanism, contemporary theory, spatial and cultural effects of globalism, material studies, wearables, gallery installations, interiors, building designs, urban proposals)
Gutierrez Monroy, Tania
(Identity intersection)
Huemoeller, James
Meyboom, Annalisa
(Transportation Infrastructure and Public Space; use of structural behaviour algorithms in the generation of architectural form)
Neumann, Oliver
(Digital Fabrication, Concepts of Context, Wood Construction, Contemporary Architecture Discourse, Digital technology in the building process, contemporary fabrication technologies)
Roecker, Inge
(Social Equity, sustainable forms of urban habitation, social and cultural entities, urban living and communities, comtemporary programming, cultural context, sustainable building)
Rysanek, Adam
(Environmental Systems)
Satterfield, Blair
(use of second stream materials in construction, providing designers and the community with greater access to digital design and fabrication processes, and the design and application of energy and material efficient methods for construction)
Soules, Matthew
(relationship between contemporary capitalism and the built environment; three interrelated topics that collectively constitute a significant constellation within capitalism)
Stevens, Sara
(history and theory of architecture and urban design, urban history, economic theory, and the history of infrastructure)
Tak, Thena
Van Duzer, Leslie
(Body and Space, Contemporary Theory, Design Thinking)
Vujosevic, Tijana
(Architecture; History and theory of architecture; Modern period, with special expertise in art and architecture of socialism)
Sample Thesis Submissions
Potential identifier for community evolution (PICE) : a systemic framework for identifying and leveraging regenerative potential in Latin-American coastal towns undergoing rapid, underregulated growth
Pavilion design based on biogenic mycelium architectural feedstock
Reconstructing Vancouver's black community from the history of invisibility : analysis of the role of black entrepreneurship in British Columbia, Canada
Chinese rural architecture between tradition and modernisation
Finding justice for urban poor : a proposal for the reinvention of development-induced resettlement projects for low-income settlements in Colombo, Sri Lanka
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Architecture (MARCH)
Master of Architecture and Master of Landscape Architecture (MARCLA)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Design, Technology and Society (PhD)
Master of Advanced Studies in Landscape Architecture (MASLA)
Master of Engineering Leadership in High Performance Buildings (MEL)
Master of Landscape Architecture (MLA)
Master of Urban Design (MUD)
Further Information
Specialization
Architecture
Architecture examines built environments relative to artistic, technical, social, cultural, and political circumstances. Our students design locally and globally, and approach architectural practice and research with critical inquiry.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/architecture
Program Website
https://sala.ubc.ca/academics/graduate-degrees/master-advanced-studies-architecture
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Applied Science
Academic Unit
School of Architecture & Landscape Architecture
Program Identifier
VGMMAV
Classification
Architecture
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
15 January 2025
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubcsala/
https://www.instagram.com/ubcsala/
https://twitter.com/ubcsala/
https://www.youtube.com/user/ubcsala/
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Why should you choose UBC?
From academic excellence and modern facilities to our diverse degree program listings to being named one of the “most innovative universities” by Reuters in 2019, UBC has a lot to offer.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC