Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-science-genome-science-technology

Master of Science in Genome Science and Technology (MSc)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Science in Genome Science and Technology (MSc)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Genome Science and Technology graduate program is a trans-disciplinary program that combines genomic research with leading-edge technology development in genome sciences for students pursing an M.Sc. or Ph.D. This program is intended to accommodate the diverse background of students and the broad nature of genomic research in human, animal, plant, microbes, and viruses.
Program Objectives
Generate a culture of innovation and discovery by exposing trainees at all levels to important and timely scientific problems being addressed using emerging technologies.
Enable researchers to effectively work at the nexus of biology, engineering, and physical sciences by providing a unified training program including joint seminars, cross-disciplinary rotations, and hands-on training in new technology and methodology.
Provide enriching professional development programs to assist the transition of trainees into both the academic and industrial workforces.
Foster close interactions, collaborations, and intellectual exchange with other laboratories nationally and internationally.
Our goal is to be among the top 10 graduate programs in genome sciences & technology in North America.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The M.Sc. program in Genome Science and Technology (GSAT) incorporates an innovative rotation program that allows students to access multiple highly skilled research faculty during their graduate program. These rotation opportunities allow students to learn the latest advances in genomic sciences and high through-put technologies.  Rotations also allow valuable relationships to form for future collaborative opportunities.
The GSAT program has collaborative associations with both the Centre for High Through-put Technology and the Michael Smith Laboratories. Faculty members associated with the program have diverse backgrounds in genomics and proteomics, bio-engineering, systems biology, chemical biology,device and instrumentation development and engineering.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Science
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Thesis required
Academic Unit
Genome Science and Technology Program
Specialization
Genome Science and Technology
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for May 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
Students who are selected for the GSAT rotation scholarship will not need to secure a supervisor before they are enrolled in the program. All other students must secure a supervisor before they can be admitted into the program. As well, they must meet the minimum admission requirements set out by Graduate and Post-doctoral Studies at UBC.
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.0
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
Applicants must have a Life-Sciences degree, with significant experience in a quantitative science OR a Computer Science/Math/Engineering/Physics degree with significant experience in Life Sciences. Although work experience may be taken into consideration if the degree is outside these areas.
Document Requirements
CV, Official transcripts, three letters of reference, Official English exam scores (if required)
2) Meet Deadlines
May 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
28 February 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
31 October 2024
Transcript Deadline:
31 October 2024
Referee Deadline:
15 November 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
31 October 2024
Transcript Deadline:
31 October 2024
Referee Deadline:
15 November 2024
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
31 March 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
01 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
14 December 2024
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
01 December 2024
Transcript Deadline:
01 December 2024
Referee Deadline:
14 December 2024
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Genome Science and Technology (MSc)
All applicants need firm commitment from a supervisor prior to applying.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Focus
Systems biology, Genomics and proteomics, Chemical biology, Bioengineering, Device and instrumentation development, Computational biology
Program Components
Students who have been selected for the GSAT rotation scholarship will have the opportunity to rotate through three GSAT-Faculty laboratories before they make the final decision on their thesis supervisor.
Research Facilities
GSAT faculty are spread throughout the UBC campus, with most occupying the Michael Smith Laboratories building. A small number of GSAT faculty may reside off-campus at the BC Cancer Research Centre or hospital research labs and Institutions.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
All students accepted by a faculty member and enrolled in the program will be paid a minimum stipend of $24,300/year.  Students who have been selected for the GSAT rotation scholarships will also have their tuition paid for the first two years of study.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
Graduates find career opportunities in both the private and public sector involving genomic and proteomic technology development. Employers from biotechnology companies and government institutions all seek graduates from the GSAT program. Opportunities in academia can be furthered by continuing towards a Ph.D. in Genome Science and Technology.
Recent graduates have taken positions at local biotechnology companies, or found work as research technicians both in British Columbia and the USA. Those looking to further their academic career have entered medical school, or are pursuing a PhD degree in Israel, and Europe.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Science in Genome Science and Technology (MSc). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
34
31
39
36
49
Offers
11
10
10
15
11
New Registrations
8
4
8
11
8
Total Enrolment
34
26
34
27
26
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
75%
based on 16 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 18 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.75 years and the maximum time is 9.94 years with an average of
3.65 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Genome Science and Technology (MSc)
All applicants need firm commitment from a supervisor prior to applying.
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Adams, Keith
(Molecular evolution, genome evolution, and gene expression)
Andersen, Raymond
(Chemicals produced by marine organisms)
Aparicio, Samuel
(Breast cancer, genome sequencing )
Birol, Inanc
(bioinformatics, computational biology, genomics, transcriptome analysis, next generation sequencing, cancer, Bioinformatics, sequence assembly, transcriptomics, gene regulation networks, high throughput informatics for big data)
Blakney, Anna
(Biomedical materials; Medical molecular engineering of nucleic acids and proteins; Gene and molecular therapy; Gene delivery; RNA; Biomaterials; Immunoengineering)
Bohlmann, Joerg
(plant biochemistry, forestry genomics, forest health, conifers, poplar, bark beetle, mountain pine beetle, natural products, secondary metabolites, terpenes, floral scent, grapevine, Conifer genomics Forest health genomics Mountain pine beetle, fungus, pine interactions and genomics Chemical ecology of conifer, insect interactions)
Bouchard-Cote, Alexandre
(machine/statistical learning; mathematical side of the subject as well as in applications in linguistics and biology)
Brooks-Wilson, Angela
(Bioinformatics; Clinical oncology; Genetic medicine; Genomics; cancer families; cancer genetics; genetic susceptibility; human genetics; longevity; Super seniors)
Brown, Carolyn Janet
(Bioinformatics; Clinical oncology; Genetic medicine; Genomics; Health counselling; Applied Genetics; Chromosomes: Structure / Organization; DNA methylation; Epigenetic control of gene expression; Gene Regulation and Expression; Genes escaping X-chromosome inactivation; Long non-coding RNAs; X-chromosome inactivation; XIST RNA)
Brumer, Harry
(Biochemistry; Chemical sciences; Genomics; Biological and Biochemical Mechanisms; biomass; carbohydrates; cellulose; Chemical Synthesis and Catalysis; Enzymes; microbiota; plant cell walls; polysaccharides)
Carleton, Bruce
(Pediatrics, clinical pharmacology, outcomes research, drug policy evaluation, health services research, drug safety and adverse drug reactions)
Chi, Kim Nguyen
(Thrombosis in cancer patients, methemoglobinemia, hemolysis, anticancer drugs, prostate cancer, chemotherapy, cell cancer, breast cancer)
Collins, Colin
(translational genomics where mathematics, genomics, computer science, and clinical science converge in diagnostics and therapeutics)
Conibear, Elizabeth
(Other basic medicine and life sciences; Protein trafficking in cell biology; Molecular genetics; Functional genomics; Membranes; Enzymes and Proteins; Vesicle Trafficking; Molecular Genetics; Neurodegenerative diseases; Protein Palmitoylation; Cell Signaling and Cancer)
Cote, Helene
(HIV Infection, blood research, infectious diseases)
Dao Duc, Khanh
(Genomics; Mathematical biology; Neurocognitive patterns and neural networks; Agricultural spatial analysis and modelling; combine mathematical,computational and statistical tools to study fundamental biological processes; regulation and determinants of gene expression and translation; Machine Learning for Biological Imaging and Microscopy; Database development and management; Biological and Artificial Neural Networks for geometric representation)
de Boer, Carl
(Gene regulation)
Dennis, Jessica
(Bioinformatics; Genetic medicine; Administrative health data; Complex Trait Genetics; Electronic health records; Epidemiology; genetic epidemiology; Genetics of Neurological and Psychiatric Diseases; Machine Learning; Mental Health and Psychopathology in Children and Youth; Precision Health; statistical genetics)
Eltis, Lindsay
(Biochemistry; Genomics; Immunology; Microbiology; Bacterial catabolism of steroids and lignin; biocatalyst development; Enzymes and Proteins; Metabolism (Living Organisms); Mycobacterium tuberculosis)
Finlay, B Brett
(Infectious agents,  bacteria, microbial infections and how humans react to it)
Foster, Leonard
(Biochemistry; Genomics; Agriculture; antigen presentation; Bioinformatics; Biological and Biochemical Mechanisms; Biotechnology; Cell Signaling and Infectious and Immune Diseases; Honey bees; host-pathogen interactions; Immune System; Microbiology; Proteomics; Systems Biology)
Friedman, Jan Marshall
(Other clinical medicine; Genetic medicine; Genomics; Health counselling; Application of whole genome sequencing to diagnose genetic disease; Birth defects epidemiology; Clinical genomics; Developmental Genetics; Genetics and Heredity; Neurofibromatosis)
Gsponer, Joerg
(Protein-DNA, protein-RNA and protein-protein interactions)
Hallam, Steven
(Microbiome; Microbial ecology; metagenomics; Biological engineering; Synthetic biology; Bioinformatics; Machine Learning; Entrepreneurship)
Hancock, Robert E
(Medical, health and life sciences; cationic peptides as anti-biofilm agents; systems immunology)
Pages
1
2
3
4
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
Toward a comprehensive understanding of early metazoans : reannotation for enhanced completeness of the ctenophore Mnemiopsis leidyi genome
The role of condensin in Ty1 retrotransposon targeting in Saccharomyces cerevisiae
Improving heterologous production of the antidiabetic metabolite montbretin A in Nicotiana benthamiana : investigation of metabolic flux imbalances, undesired product formation, and N. benthamiana accessions
Investigation of diazeniumdiolate formation by the fragin biosynthesis pathway in Burkholderia cenocepacia h111
Targeted metaproteomics of metabolically active microbial populations in a full-scale biogas facility
Effects of dexamethasone on glucose homeostasis and tissue proteomes in mice
Investigating gene expression dynamics and regulatory networks in fetal liver hematopoietic lineages using single cell transcriptomics
Exploring the impact of SNCA overexpression on mouse hippocampal DNA methylome and transcriptome during midlife
A computational framework for large-scale cell lineage reconstruction
A bioinformatic pipeline for integration of low and high dimensional multiomic datasets
Integrating nanopore long-range genomic variant phasing to improve resolution of allele-specific expression from short-read RNA-seq
Exploring TF glue as a new class of therapeutics using high-throughput screens and computational chemistry
Exploring Cannabis sativa's response to powdery mildew (Golovinomyces ambrosiae) infection
The effects of abiotic stress on isoform composition in polyploid Brassica napus
Prioritization of ligands and receptors in human islets and stem cell-derived cells
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Genome Science and Technology (PhD)
Further Information
Specialization
Genome Science and Technology
Genome Science and Technology combines training in genomics, with intensive training in new leading-edge genome science technologies, such as high-throughput techniques that acquire information from DNA sequence (genomics), protein expression and interactions (proteomics), and gene expression patterns (transcriptomics) to exploit information for a better understanding of biology.
Research Areas
systems biology
genomics and proteomics
chemical biology
bioengineering
device and instrumentation development
computational biology
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/genome-science-and-technology
Program Website
https://www.gsat.ubc.ca/curriculum/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Science
Academic Unit
Genome Science and Technology Program
Program Identifier
VGMMSC-LE
Classification
Genomics
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for May 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
May 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
28 February 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
31 October 2024
International Applicant Deadline
31 October 2024
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
31 March 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
International Applicant Deadline
01 December 2024
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver