Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-rehabilitation-science

Master of Rehabilitation Science (MRSc)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Rehabilitation Science (MRSc)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The online Master of Rehabilitation Science (MRSc) is designed for working health professionals who wish to gain the knowledge to impact care and shape future practice.
You will learn how to:
design and execute knowledge translation plans to change outdated practices.
develop and deliver education programs for patients, and/or to equip colleagues with the knowledge and skills to improve care.
facilitate interprofessional reasoning for improved decision making.
plan and lead programs with change management strategies to quicken improvements and decrease costs.
choose effective methods to evaluate patient and program outcomes.
And much more based on your interests.
Unlike traditional thesis-based research master's programs, the MRSc offers a course-based degree or the option of combining courses and a work- or practice-based research project.
You can complete the MRSc degree while working full-time. This prevents any loss of income while pursuing graduate studies. Most learners choose to complete the degree within three to five years part-time. You can graduate in one year if you study full-time.
Please note, the MRSc is not an entry-level credential for rehabilitation practice in Canada or other countries: that is, completing the program does not enable you to practice as a health professional. The MRSc is an advanced degree for health professionals already working in rehabilitation.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The UBC MRSc program is one of the longest-running online post-professional degree programs designed for specifically for rehabilitation health professionals in Canada. We offer flexible learning through fully online courses and full or part-time study options.
For more than15 years, the MRSc at UBC has offered students practical learning that can be applied directly to the workplace.  Our graduates report having increased confidence in their ability to use evidence to inform practice, to develop and evaluate new programs; to select and critique rehabilitation measurement instruments, and to educate others within the rehabilitation environment.
The UBC MRSc is an inter-professional program that fosters collaboration with rehabilitation clinicians around the world and offers new opportunities for professional growth and career revitalization.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Medicine
Mode of delivery
Online / Distance (100%)
Program Components
Coursework + Major Project/Essay required
Academic Unit
Rehabilitation Sciences Programs
Specialization
Rehabilitation Sciences
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
For more application information please visit the MRSc Requirements section on our website. It is advised that you have the MRSc Application Process page open as you are completing the application.
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 108
Reading
26
Writing
28
Speaking
23
Listening
26
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.5
Reading
7.0
Writing
7.0
Speaking
7.0
Listening
7.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
Completion of a recognized four-year baccalaureate degree in a health profession from an accredited academic institution, or a UBC-recognized equivalent, that qualifies you to provide health services to patients or clients in a rehabilitation health care setting. Applications from prospective learners with three-year degrees in a health profession are reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
Document Requirements
Beyond the default documents requested by every applicant to any UBC graduate program, we require the following:
Documentation of prior work experience (e.g., resume): applicants must be practicing health professionals in a regulated health or human services discipline, have a minimum of three (3) years of rehabilitation work experience in a health care setting where they have their own caseload, and assess and treat patients independently.
The name of the regulatory college for your health profession and certification number.
Other Requirements
Applicants must be practicing health professionals in a regulated health or human services disciplines who have a minimum of three (3) years of rehabilitation work experience in a health care setting where they have their own caseload, and assess and treat patients independently. Experience is not limited by setting and may include community / home health practice, private practice, hospital-based, industry, schools, rehabilitation centres, etc.
2) Meet Deadlines
Application open dates and deadlines for an upcoming intake have not yet been configured in the admissions system. Please check back later.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Course-based programs do not have a thesis component. While they may assign academic advisors to students, they do
not
require applicants to reach out to individual professors / faculty members to seek commitment as their thesis supervisor. Please do not contact faculty members for the purposes of thesis supervision if you are applying to this program.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Focus
The focus of MRSc learners’ research is to explore issues impacting practice in the workplace. Past students have pursued diverse areas of research, including: parents’ experiences of role negotiation in family-centred care; identifying an effective education and learning model for clinicians; comparison of diagnosis and recommended care by a physiotherapist and orthopaedic surgeon; admission, discharge, and follow-up support in dementia units; parents’ and caregivers’ perceived stroke education needs in inpatient rehabilitation.
Program Components
MRSc learners can pursue a course-based option or conduct a small research project. Learners in the Graduate Certificate in Orthopaedic Musculoskeletal Physical Therapy (GCOMPT) can incorporate GCOMPT courses into their MRSc.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Tuition per credit
$470.99
$555.45
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
Vary
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Program Funding Packages
The MRSc is a part-time professional degree program for practicing health professionals, therefore no scholarships or bursaries are available; all tuition, however, is tax deductible in Canada. Funding or scholarships may be available through your employer or union, or other sources.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
The MRSc degree prepares learners for further professional opportunities and roles, such as: expert practitioner, clinical educator, practice lead, healthcare manager, or consultant in program evaluation.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Rehabilitation Science (MRSc). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
11
16
34
27
25
Offers
7
8
17
19
20
New Registrations
6
6
12
18
17
Total Enrolment
32
41
44
54
53
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
94%
based on 72 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 67 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 0.33 years and the maximum time is 6.83 years with an average of
3.16 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Rehabilitation Sciences (PhD)
Graduate Certificate in Rehabilitation Sciences (GCRS)
Master of Science in Rehabilitation Sciences (MSc)
Further Information
Specialization
Rehabilitation Sciences
The Master of Science in Rehabilitation Science (MSc) is designed to prepare individuals to conduct research independently and in collaboration with other scientists. Students will investigate an area of research relevant to rehabilitation through critical analysis of problems related to basic sciences, clinical practice, or to development of theory.
The Master of Rehabilitation Science (MRSc) is designed for working health professionals and to enhance interdisciplinary practice. Unlike traditional thesis-based research master’s programs, the MRSc is a combination of courses and a work- or practice-based research project. The MRSc allows you to obtain a master’s degree without interrupting your work.
The Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) focuses on the discipline of rehabilitation sciences, the study of providing treatment and education to persons with temporary or permanent disability to return them to maximum function, well-being and personally-satisfying levels of independence.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/rehabilitation-sciences
Program Website
https://mrsc.ubc.ca/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Medicine
Academic Unit
Rehabilitation Sciences Programs
Program Identifier
VGMMRS
Classification
Rehabilitation medicine
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/UBCPT/
https://www.instagram.com/ubc_pt/
https://twitter.com/ubcRHSC/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Why should you choose UBC?
From academic excellence and modern facilities to our diverse degree program listings to being named one of the “most innovative universities” by Reuters in 2019, UBC has a lot to offer.
Learn more about why you should attend UBC