Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-food-science

Master of Food Science (MFS)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Food Science (MFS)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The Master of Food Science (MFS) program was launched in 2007 with a focus to prepare students for professional work in the food industry or government. Since its inception, the MFS program has trained up to 30 graduate students per year.
In the one-year program, you’ll gain a solid theoretical foundation in food science alongside valuable practical experience in the industry. You’ll build connections, gain teamwork and communication skills, and learn theory that you can apply globally.
Choose from a variety of courses in this flexible program and tailor your learning for the career you want and the background you already have. The emphasis in this professional program is on problem-based learning, so a thesis is not required – instead, you’ll gain valuable practical experience in a 3.5 month industry practicum.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
MFS program is the only program in Canada to offer a one-year, non-thesis Master of Food Science degree. The program is unique in combining graduate level courses with a high quality practicum experience.
Every year a number of practicum sites either hire or extend their student’s contract. Although not all practicums result in an offer for post-graduation employment, some employers use their professional networks to refer graduates to their colleagues within the food sector.
Many of our alumni have commented that the combination of courses and practicum in this program has helped them to develop skills required for the current job market. In consultation with students, alumni and industry, the program continues to evolve, incorporating current topics relevant to the food sector.
I think the most import thing I received from the degree are the skills to work efficiently both independently and inside a team, and the mindset of continuing to improve myself.
Sean Xia
Program Structure
After completing two semesters of course work, the program culminates with a 15‑week summer practicum in which the students get hands-on experience, working on a project in an industry or government setting. Throughout the years students have helped local, national and international food sectors to solve problems and provide advances in food safety, risk assessment, product development, sensory analysis and process validation studies.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Specialization
Food Science
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $14,002.30 | International: $46,870.80
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Admission Information & Requirements
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 90
Reading
22
Writing
21
Speaking
21
Listening
22
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 6.5
Reading
6.0
Writing
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Listening
6.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
Undergraduate degree in Food Science or related subject.
Course Requirements
The following subjects are prerequisites for the program and normally are taken before entering the program.
Non Food Science Courses:
Organic Chemistry - 2 courses
Biochemistry - 2 courses
Calculus - 1 course
Physics - 2 courses
Statistics - 1 course
Microbiology- 2 courses
And in the area of
Food Science
: four courses (12 credits) from the following six core courses or equivalent.
Having 4 four courses (12 credits) from the following six core courses or equivalent will be an asset. However, strong candidates who have not taken these courses will be given the opportunity to take up to two courses to fill the knowledge gap while in the program.
Food Process Science (FNH 309)
Food Chemistry I (FNH 301)
Food Analysis (FNH 302)
Food Laws, Regulations, & Quality Assurance (FNH 403)
Micro Organisms in Food Systems (FNH 313)
Principles in Food Engineering (FNH 300)
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 September 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
10 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
10 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
15 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
10 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
10 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
15 January 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Course-based programs do not have a thesis component. While they may assign academic advisors to students, they do
not
require applicants to reach out to individual professors / faculty members to seek commitment as their thesis supervisor. Please do not contact faculty members for the purposes of thesis supervision if you are applying to this program.
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Program Components
The MFS practicum is a 6 credit course offered in the third term of the program. All students are placed in practicum sites at the beginning of May, after they have completed all required courses, including a practicum-preparatory workshop.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$4,667.44
$15,623.61
Program Fee
$14,002.32
$46,870.83
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$1000.00
$1500.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Program Funding Packages
Professional / course-based programs usually do not provide merit-based funding. However, the MFS program offers merit-based scholarships.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
Our graduates are hired by local and international companies and government agencies in positions of Quality Assurance Coordinator, Quality Control Manager, Technical Director, Research and Development Specialist, Product Design Specialist, Regulatory and Scientific Affairs Specialist, Process Scientist and Consultant. A few graduates have pursued further studies towards a Ph.D. degree.
Read some of their
success stories
.
Alumni on Success
Jenna Buhrmann
Job Title
Research &amp; Development Food Scientist and Brewmaster
Employer
Kindred Cultures
All Alumni Stories
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Food Science (MFS). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
110
147
309
182
152
Offers
53
56
64
62
51
New Registrations
40
42
37
40
36
Total Enrolment
41
42
37
40
36
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
99%
based on 117 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 155 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.02 years and the maximum time is 1.02 years with an average of
1.02 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Food Science (PhD)
Master of Science in Food Science (MSc)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Applied Animal Biology (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Human Nutrition (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Integrated Studies in Land and Food Systems (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Plant Science (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Soil Science (PhD)
Graduate Certificate in Aquaculture (GCAQUA)
Master of Food and Resource Economics (MFRE)
Master of Land and Water Systems (MLWS)
Master of Science in Applied Animal Biology (MSc)
Master of Science in Human Nutrition (MSc)
Master of Science in Integrated Studies in Land and Food Systems (MSc)
Master of Science in Plant Science (MSc)
Master of Science in Soil Science (MSc)
Further Information
Specialization
Food Science
Food Science offers opportunities in the areas of food analysis, food biotechnology, food chemistry, food microbiology, food process science, food quality evaluation, food safety and toxicology, and wine biotechnology.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/food-science
Program Website
https://mfs.landfood.ubc.ca/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Academic Unit
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Program Identifier
VGMMFS
Classification
Food sciences (including food engineering)
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 September 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
10 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
10 January 2025
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ubcLFS/
https://www.instagram.com/ubclfs/
https://www.linkedin.com/company/ubc-lfs/
https://twitter.com/ubclfs/
https://www.youtube.com/user/ubclandfood/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver