Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-engineering-electrical-computer-engineering

Master of Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering (MEng)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering (MEng)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
The Master of Engineering is not administered by the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies. Please check the
UBC Engineering
website for admission requirements, deadlines and application procedure.
Overview
ECE’s Master of Engineering (M.Eng.) program is designed for students who want to pursue their electrical and computer engineering education beyond the undergraduate level but are looking for an alternative to a thesis-based research program.
The Master of Engineering program requires students to complete coursework with the option of completing a supervised project. Students are free to choose among a number of graduate and senior undergraduate courses to complete the program. Find out more on the ECE MEng
program website.
Possible areas of concentration include:
Communications
Computer Systems
Energy Production
Energy Utilization
Micro/Nano Electronic Systems
Signal Processing
Software Engineering
Applicants who are considering taking a Ph.D. in the future should apply for admission to the M.A.Sc. program rather than the M.Eng. program.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
Students are free to choose any selection of courses they wish within the
program guidelines.
After completing one term, an M.Eng. candidate can choose to conduct an engineering project and write a report in the candidate's area of specialization, in lieu of 6 credits of conventional coursework. Students will receive guidance from their project supervisor in developing their research topic, and students can also design their own projects in this course. Students are encouraged to approach individual faculty members if they have project ideas.
Program Structure
The M.Eng. is an Electrical and Computer Engineering degree; there is no sub-classification on the certificate. The MEng program is not a research degree, and is course-based with a supervised project option. The following groupings of core courses are recommended for students with specific interests. While there is no guarantee that each graduate course will be offered each year, an effort will be made to offer the courses in the lists below:
Communications:
EECE563 Wireless Communication Systems
EECE564 Detection and Estimation of Signals in Noise
EECE565 Communication Networks
EECE569 Mobile Communications Networks
Computer Systems:
EECE 527 Advanced Computer Architecture
EECE 571E Electrical Engineering Seminar and Special Problems - PARA COMP PLTFRM
EECE 583 CAD Algorithms for Integrated Circuits
EECE 592 Architecture for Learning Systems
Energy Production:
EECE 553 Advanced Power Systems Analysis
EECE 554 Advanced Power System Control and Dynamics
EECE 560 Network Analysis and Simulation
EECE 571D Power System Dynamics and Stability
Energy Utilization:
EECE 549 Dynamic Modeling of Electric Machines and Controls
EECE 550 Topics in Power Electronic Design
EECE 559 Energy Storage Systems
EECE 561 Alternative Energy Sources
Micro/Nano Electronic Systems:
EECE 509 Advanced Microsystems Design
EECE 573 Micro and Nano Fabrication Technologies
EECE 580 Emerging Electronic Materials and Devices
EECE 588 Analog Integrated Circuit Design
Signal Processing:
EECE541 Multimedia Systems
EECE562 Statistical Signal Processing with Applications in Wireless Communications and Defence
EECE570 Fundamentals of Visual Computing
EECE586 Wavelets, Principles and Applications in Signal Processing
Software Engineering:
EECE 514 Software verification and testing
EECE 512 Topics in Computer security
EECE 518 Human Interface Technologies
EECE 571B Big Data Systems
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Applied Science
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering
Specialization
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $6,704.13 | International: $25,109.30
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Research Information
Program Components
For information on co-op, please see:
https://coop.engineering.ubc.ca/
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$2,234.71
$8,369.77
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$6,704.13
$25,109.31
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$1000.00
$1000.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Program Funding Packages
Financial aid is generally not available to M.Eng. students, but MEng students can apply for
Teaching Assistant
positions in the ECE department.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering (MEng). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
833
700
768
519
542
Offers
139
113
143
106
126
New Registrations
37
52
66
60
51
Total Enrolment
122
140
135
104
98
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
92%
based on 162 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 186 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 0.34 years and the maximum time is 4.78 years with an average of
1.65 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Electrical and Computer Engineering (PhD)
Master of Applied Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering (MASc)
Same Academic Unit
Master of Engineering Leadership in Dependable Software Systems (MEL)
At the UBC Okanagan Campus
Master of Engineering (MEng)
Further Information
Specialization
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Electrical and Computer Engineering provides advanced study and research for graduates of electrical or computer engineering, engineering physics, physics, computer science or other related subjects. Facilities are provided for research in: communications and signal processing; computers and computer applications; digital system design, VLSI design and software engineering; electromagnetics; power systems and power electronics; solid state devices; microelectronics, nanoelectronics and optoelectronics; robotics and telerobotics; and systems and control.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-applied-science/master-engineering
Program Website
https://ece.ubc.ca/graduate/programs/master-engineering/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Applied Science
Academic Unit
Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering
Program Identifier
VGMMEN-HA
Classification
Electrical engineering, computer engineering, and information engineering
Program Website
Apply Now
Apply for September 2025
If you don't have a UBC Campus-Wide Login (CWL) please
create an account
first.
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
30 November 2024
International Applicant Deadline
30 November 2024
September 2026 Intake
Application Open Date
01 October 2025
Canadian Applicant Deadline
30 November 2025
International Applicant Deadline
30 November 2025
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Social Media Channels
https://www.facebook.com/ECEUBC/
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Considering Vancouver as your next home?
This city won’t disappoint. It has it all: sea, parks, mountains, beaches and all four seasons, including beautiful summers and mild, wet winters with snow.
Learn more about life in Vancouver