Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/master-of-science-medical-genetics

Master of Science in Medical Genetics (MSc)
Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Master of Science in Medical Genetics (MSc)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
Overview
The UBC Department of Medical Genetics is an inspiring and productive community of scholars of genetics and genomics; an outstanding provider of knowledge, technical expertise, and compassionate care for our patients. The Department is composed of dozens of faculty members at the forefront of their fields who use cutting edge genetic, epigenetic, genomic, and bioinformatic methodologies to gain insight into diseases such as cancer, diabetes, obesity, neurodegenerative and neurological disorders, and other genetic diseases. Research is highly interactive and often involves local, national, and international collaborations which further enrich the research experience.
Individual labs conduct clinical and/or translational research and basic experimental research engaging a wide variety of approaches including the use of model organisms such as mice, flies (D. melanogaster), worms (C. elegans), and yeast (S. cerevisiae).
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
What makes the program unique?
The Mission of the UBC Department of Medical Genetics is to pursue basic and clinical research for diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of genetic disease. Our goal is to be a world leader in the research, clinical practice, and teaching of Genetic Medicine. We are a respected source of information and advice to society. While focusing on key areas of genetic medicine, we view diversity of approach and techniques to be an essential strength of our Department.
Being part of a community with like-minded peers, having the opportunity to take part in both social and academic events, and finding mentors outside of your lab who are willing to take time out of their busy days to assist you are all things that continue to attract me to this program.
Pardis Kazemian
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Medicine
Mode of delivery
In person at UBC Vancouver
Program Components
Coursework + Thesis required
Academic Unit
Department of Medical Genetics
Specialization
Medical Genetics
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $5,515.71 | International: $9,690.18
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Admission Information & Requirements
Program Instructions
Grade Point Average (GPA) – Canadian applicants:
GPA calculation of Canadian degrees is based on all upper-level courses taken in the most recent, full time degree.
Grade Point Average (GPA) – international degrees:
Check your
COUNTRY
of education for minimum GPA and length of degree program to determine if your credentials meet UBC admission requirements. GPA calculation is based on the final, overall standing (grade) achieved in the last completed degree. Final standing is determined from your school's grading system.
1) Check Eligibility
Minimum Academic Requirements
The Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies establishes the minimum admission requirements common to all applicants, usually a minimum overall average in the B+ range (76% at UBC). The graduate program that you are applying to may have additional requirements. Please review the specific requirements for applicants with credentials from institutions in:
Canada
or the
United States
International countries other than the United States
Each program may set higher academic minimum requirements. Please review the
program website
carefully to understand the program requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission as it is a competitive process.
English Language Test
Applicants from a university outside Canada in which English is not the primary language of instruction must provide results of an
English language proficiency examination
as part of their application. Tests must have been taken
within the last 24 months
at the time of submission of your application.
Minimum requirements for the two most common English language proficiency tests to apply to this program are listed below:
TOEFL: Test of English as a Foreign Language - internet-based
Overall score requirement
: 100
Reading
24
Writing
26
Speaking
24
Listening
24
IELTS: International English Language Testing System
Overall score requirement
: 7.5
Reading
7.0
Writing
7.0
Speaking
7.0
Listening
7.0
Other Test Scores
Some programs require additional
test scores
such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Test (GMAT). The requirements for this program are:
The GRE is not required.
Prior degree, course and other requirements
Prior Degree Requirements
MSc applicants: BSc degree (focused on life sciences, biotechnology, etc.)
Course Requirements
Mandatory advanced-level courses in:
Genetics and/or genomics
Strongly recommended advanced-level courses in one or more of the following:
Biochemistry
Molecular Biology
Biostatistics (Statistics)
Bioinformatics (i.e. MICB 405 or equivalent)
Additional criteria:
Relevant laboratory research experience
Excellent references with assessment of research expertise and aptitude
Document Requirements
A complete application includes:
Application form
Letter of interest / intent (1 page)
Curriculum Vitae
References (3)
TOEFL or IELTS test scores
NOTE: Your application will not be reviewed, and therefore be rejected if your OVERALL AND COMPONENT test scores are below the required Medical Genetics minimum scores. There will be no exceptions.
Official post-secondary transcripts; and degree certificates (international students)
Unofficial transcripts, web transcripts and poor-quality scans are not acceptable. Do not include high school transcripts.
Each transcript must be scanned as a single PDF document and MUST include the grading key.
Other Requirements
Successful applicants meet and often exceed the admissions and pre-requisite requirements:
Typically have relevant, independent, multi-month (wet or dry) laboratory research experience;
Typically have excellent, detailed reference letters with assessment of applicant's research expertise and aptitude by direct research supervisors, not just from course instructors;
Often have won awards and/or published journal articles and/or presented posters or platform presentations and/or attended professional meetings and/or volunteered for science-related events (outreach, etc.)
2) Meet Deadlines
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 November 2024
Canadian Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
15 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
15 January 2025
International Applicants
Application Deadline:
15 January 2025
Transcript Deadline:
15 January 2025
Referee Deadline:
15 January 2025
Deadline Explanations
Application Deadline
Deadline to submit online application. No changes can be made to the application after submission.
Transcript Deadline
Deadline to upload scans of official transcripts through the applicant portal in support of a submitted application. Information for accessing the applicant portal will be provided after submitting an online application for admission.
Referee Deadline
Deadline for the referees identified in the application for admission to submit references. See
Letters of Reference
for more information.
3) Prepare Application
Transcripts
All applicants have to submit transcripts from all past post-secondary study.
Document submission requirements
depend on whether your institution of study is within Canada or outside of Canada.
Letters of Reference
A minimum of three
references
are required for application to graduate programs at UBC. References should be requested from individuals who are prepared to provide a report on your academic ability and qualifications.
Statement of Interest
Many programs require a
statement of interest
, sometimes called a "statement of intent", "description of research interests" or something similar.
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Medical Genetics (MSc)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
SEPTEMBER INTAKE - MSc and PhD Applicants:
Supervisor commitment is not required by the application deadline, however applicants are encouraged to contact potential supervisors early in the application process.
Following the review by the Admissions Committee, applicants who are deemed admissible will be notified by email. Admissible applicants must secure the commitment of a research supervisor before receiving an offer of admission to the UBC Medical Genetics Graduate Program.
JANUARY INTAKE – PhD Applicants Only
Citizenship Verification
Permanent Residents of Canada must provide a clear photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident card.
4) Apply Online
All applicants must complete an online
application form
and pay the
application fee
to be considered for admission to UBC.
Research Information
Research Highlights
See Medical Genetics
website
for up-to-date articles featuring faculty research.
Research Focus
Research in the Department of Medical Genetics covers the study of human genetics with areas of focus in mammalian development, regulation of gene expression, genetic diseases due to single gene or complex inheritance, birth defects, reproduction, cancer, immunology, genomics, bioinformatics, ethics and population health. Research Areas of Expertise: - Cancer Genetics & Genomics - Clinical Genetics, Genetic Counselling, Ethics & Policy - Developmental Genetics & Birth Defects - DNA Repair & Genome Stability - Epigenetics, Epigenomics & Gene Regulation - Genetic Epidemiology & Population Genetics - Genomics & Bioinformatics - Immunogenetics - Neuroscience & Neurodegenerative Disease Genetics - Pharmacogenomics - Proteomics - Stem Cells & Gene Therapy
For Medical Genetics faculty research profiles, see:
Faculty Research Summaries
.
Program Components
Medical Genetics Rotation Program
MSc and PhD applicants who have applied for the September-start, and who are highest ranked by the Medical Genetics Admissions Committee, will be offered the opportunity to join the Medical Genetics
Rotation Program
. The four top-ranked applicants offered these positions will also receive one-year Rotation Program Awards. Rotation Program students rotate through three different laboratories before choosing a final, thesis lab. Rotations are for nine-weeks each, from September to April. The Rotation Program is open to Canadians, Permanent Residents of Canada, and international applicants.
Medical Genetics Graduate Program students are encouraged to volunteer their leadership skills and talents to science-related departmental and community events and projects. There are many volunteer opportunities available through the University, at students’ research facilities, and in the local community. The Departmental student organization, the Medical Genetics Graduate Student Society (MGGSA), plans annual departmental events such as September Welcome and Research Day as well as on-going academic and social events.
Research Facilities
Medical Genetics graduate student training takes place at multiple state-of-the-art facilities, representing a diverse collection of training environments. These include several centres on the UBC Point Grey Campus (e.g. Life Sciences Centre, Brain Research Centre, Michael Smith Laboratories) and off-campus (e.g Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre, BC Children’s Hospital Research Institute, Centre for Molecular Medicine and Therapeutics,Terry Fox Laboratory at the BC Cancer Agency). Available research services and facilities include: animal modeling, biobanking, bioanalyzer, bioinformatics, DNA sequencing, flow cytometry, genotyping and gene expression, histology and imaging, transgenic facility, support to perform biostatistics, clinical trials, data management and access to health research and evaluation services.
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$116.25
$168.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$1,838.57
$3,230.06
Tuition
per year
(plus annual increase, usually 2%-5%)
$5,515.71
$9,690.18
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
$3,200.00 (-)
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options, including merit-based (i.e. based on your academic performance) and need-based (i.e. based on your financial situation) opportunities.
Program Funding Packages
Stipend Amount and Duration
The recommended minimum yearly stipend for a full time Medical Genetics MSc thesis-based graduate student (Canadian and international) is
$31,500.
The student pays tuition from their stipend (the amount of tuition depends on whether the student is domestic or international as well as time spent in their graduate program). This stipend may come from an independent studentship award and/or from the Research Supervisor's research grant. Admission to the Medical Genetics Graduate Program normally includes a commitment from the Supervisor to ensure that each student is supported to the recommended funding level. Exceptions to this policy may be granted under unusual circumstances. Financial support from personal resources is not acceptable as “funding” for incoming students in the Medical Genetics Graduate Program.
The duration of the annual stipend is normally two years for a MSc student. After the two-year MSc, continued funding is at the discretion of the Supervisor. The Supervisor should inform the student in writing (with a copy to the Medical Genetics Graduate Program office) at least six months prior to the end-date of the student's stipend.
Funding depends both on satisfactory academic and research progress, as determined by the Student’s Advisory Committee, and on the Research Supervisor's continued grant support. Termination of funding for other justifiable reasons must be approved by a majority of the Medical Genetics Graduate Advisory Committee.
University and External Awards
Medical Genetics Graduate Program students receive funding from many sources; not all students will receive the same amount. Graduate students receive a minimum stipend from their supervisor. Additionally, if a student wins an award, their supervisor will top up their stipend.
See the Medical Genetics website for more information about
awards
available to eligible registered students. Students may also qualify for building-specific and research-specific awards.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
All applicants are encouraged to review the
awards listing
to identify potential opportunities to fund their graduate education. The database lists merit-based scholarships and awards and allows for filtering by various criteria, such as domestic vs. international or degree level.
Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA)
Many professors are able to provide Research Assistantships (GRA) from their research grants to support full-time graduate students studying under their supervision. The duties constitute part of the student's graduate degree requirements. A Graduate Research Assistantship is considered a form of fellowship for a period of graduate study and is therefore not covered by a collective agreement. Stipends vary widely, and are dependent on the field of study and the type of research grant from which the assistantship is being funded.
Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA)
Graduate programs may have Teaching Assistantships available for registered full-time graduate students. Full teaching assistantships involve 12 hours work per week in preparation, lecturing, or laboratory instruction although many graduate programs offer partial TA appointments at less than 12 hours per week. Teaching assistantship rates are set by collective bargaining between the University and the
Teaching Assistants' Union
.
Graduate Academic Assistantships (GAA)
Academic Assistantships are employment opportunities to perform work that is relevant to the university or to an individual faculty member, but not to support the student’s graduate research and thesis. Wages are considered regular earnings and when paid monthly, include vacation pay.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Career Options
The MSc program in Medical Genetics is a research-based, thesis-based program which generally takes two - three years to complete. Graduates find employment in the public and private sector, and also pursue further studies in the field of Medical Genetics. Following is a brief sample of occupations that our graduates are pursuing:
Training:
Genetic Counselling
Medical Doctor
Clinical Genetics Technology
Industry / Clinical Careers:
Molecular Diagnostic Technologist
Research Associate
Data Management Coordinator
Research Program Manager
Online Marketing Coordinator
Scientific Sales Representative
Research and Development Scientist
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Master of Science in Medical Genetics (MSc). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
56
53
71
72
93
Offers
13
9
14
10
14
New Registrations
12
5
12
8
12
Total Enrolment
28
28
30
28
34
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
76%
based on 21 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 22 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 2.05 years and the maximum time is 4.78 years with an average of
2.9 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Research Supervisors
Supervision
Students in research-based programs usually require a faculty member to function as their thesis supervisor. Please follow the instructions provided by each program whether applicants should contact faculty members.
Instructions regarding thesis supervisor contact for Master of Science in Medical Genetics (MSc)
Applicants should browse faculty profiles and indicate in their application who they are interested in working with. No commitment from a supervisor prior to applying is necessary, but contacting faculty members is encouraged.
SEPTEMBER INTAKE - MSc and PhD Applicants:
Supervisor commitment is not required by the application deadline, however applicants are encouraged to contact potential supervisors early in the application process.
Following the review by the Admissions Committee, applicants who are deemed admissible will be notified by email. Admissible applicants must secure the commitment of a research supervisor before receiving an offer of admission to the UBC Medical Genetics Graduate Program.
JANUARY INTAKE – PhD Applicants Only
Advice and insights from UBC Faculty on reaching out to supervisors
These videos contain some general advice from faculty across UBC on finding and reaching out to a supervisor. They are not program specific.
View More Advice Videos
This list shows faculty members with full supervisory privileges who are affiliated with this program. It is not a comprehensive list of all potential supervisors as faculty from other programs or faculty members without full supervisory privileges can request approvals to supervise graduate students in this program.
Arbour, Laura
(northern and aboriginal health issues as they pertain to genetics)
Austin, Jehannine
(Clinical genetics (except cancer genetics); genetic counseling; genetics services; mental health)
Birol, Inanc
(bioinformatics, computational biology, genomics, transcriptome analysis, next generation sequencing, cancer, Bioinformatics, sequence assembly, transcriptomics, gene regulation networks, high throughput informatics for big data)
Brooks-Wilson, Angela
(Bioinformatics; Clinical oncology; Genetic medicine; Genomics; cancer families; cancer genetics; genetic susceptibility; human genetics; longevity; Super seniors)
Brown, Carolyn Janet
(Bioinformatics; Clinical oncology; Genetic medicine; Genomics; Health counselling; Applied Genetics; Chromosomes: Structure / Organization; DNA methylation; Epigenetic control of gene expression; Gene Regulation and Expression; Genes escaping X-chromosome inactivation; Long non-coding RNAs; X-chromosome inactivation; XIST RNA)
Brunham, Liam
(Medical, health and life sciences; Lipids; Genetics; Pharmacogenomics; Cardiovascular diseases)
Capon, Francesca
(Autoimmune Diseases; Pericardial Disorders; Rare diseases; Skin Conditions; Skin inflammation)
Carleton, Bruce
(Pediatrics, clinical pharmacology, outcomes research, drug policy evaluation, health services research, drug safety and adverse drug reactions)
Conibear, Elizabeth
(Other basic medicine and life sciences; Protein trafficking in cell biology; Molecular genetics; Functional genomics; Membranes; Enzymes and Proteins; Vesicle Trafficking; Molecular Genetics; Neurodegenerative diseases; Protein Palmitoylation; Cell Signaling and Cancer)
Dennis, Jessica
(Bioinformatics; Genetic medicine; Administrative health data; Complex Trait Genetics; Electronic health records; Epidemiology; genetic epidemiology; Genetics of Neurological and Psychiatric Diseases; Machine Learning; Mental Health and Psychopathology in Children and Youth; Precision Health; statistical genetics)
Elliott, Alison
(Other health sciences; rare disease; genomics; Congenital Malformations; Skeletal and limb anomalies; Genetic Counselling; Health services implementation science)
Evgin, Laura
Friedman, Jan Marshall
(Other clinical medicine; Genetic medicine; Genomics; Health counselling; Application of whole genome sequencing to diagnose genetic disease; Birth defects epidemiology; Clinical genomics; Developmental Genetics; Genetics and Heredity; Neurofibromatosis)
Gibson, William
(Genetic medicine; Genetic Diseases; Chromosomes: Structure / Organization; Epigenetics)
Hayden, Michael
(Genetic medicine; Health counselling; Neurosciences, biological and chemical aspects; Neurosciences, medical and physiological and health aspects; Diabetes; Disease progression; Drug development; Gene Therapy; Genetic Diseases; Huntington disease; Neurodegenerative diseases; Neurodegenerative disorders)
Hieter, Philip
(Molecular biology of eukaryotic chromosome transmission )
Holt, Robert
(Immunogenetics, Metagenomics - Infectious agents in Cancer, Cancer Genomes, Neurobiology, DNA Sequencing)
Hoodless, Pamela
(Computational cell biology; Cancer; Genomics; Medical and biomedical engineering; Nucleic acids studies; Developmental Genetics; Embryology; Embryonic Development; Epigenetics; Heart Valve / Valvular Diseases; Heart valve formation; Liver; Liver development; Stem Cells and Organogenesis; transcriptional regulation)
Huntsman, David
(hereditary cancer, molecular pathology, cancer biomarkers, Pancreas centre)
Jefferies, Wilfred Arthur
(Iron transport molecules)
Jiang, Xiaoyan
(Cancer drug development and therapeutics)
Jones, Steven J
(Bioinformatics, genome science, mutations, cancer progression)
Kobor, Michael
(Biochemistry; Bioinformatics; Genetic medicine; Genomics; Chromatin Biology; Epigenetics; molecular biology; Social Epigenetics)
Lansdorp, Peter
(Genetic medicine; Application of single cell Strand-seq in precision medicine; Applied Genetics; cellular aging; Cellular Degeneration; Cellular Division; Complex Trait Genetics; DNA replication, epigenetics and stem cells; Gene Regulation and Expression; Genetic Diseases; Stem Cells and Organogenesis; telomeres; Telomeres, genomic instability, aging and cancer)
Leavitt, Blair
(Genetic medicine; Neurosciences, biological and chemical aspects; Neurosciences, medical and physiological and health aspects; Alzheimer's disease; Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis; Ataxia; Dementia; Experimental Therapeutics; Frontotemporal Dementia; Gene regulation; Gene Silencing and Gene Editing; Gene Therapy; Huntington disease; Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells; Medical Genetics; Mouse models of disease; Neurodegenerative diseases; Neurogenetics)
Pages
1
2
next ›
last »
Sample Thesis Submissions
Characterization of the transcriptomic response to acute starvation in the C. elegans hypodermis
Investigating oligodendrocyte dysfunction in Huntington's Disease using oligocortical organoids
Integrative genomic and exposomic analysis of mental health related behaviours in 5-year-old children
Characterization of the transcriptomic response to acute starvation in the C. elegans hypodermis : [supplementary material]
Epigenetic erasure in ectopic primordial germ cells
Investigating mouse motor activity and learning behavior using quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis to elucidate the genetic underpinnings of developmental coordination disorder (DCD)
Simulating chromoanagenesis for tool development and testing
The development of dose-adjusted pharmacogenetic prediction models in pediatric oncology
Characterization of DPP4⁺ fibroadipogenic progenitors in skeletal muscle
Dispersed measures of cord blood DNA methylation do not reflect third trimester bisphenol exposure
Development of a CRISPR gene correction strategy for aniridia employing a minimally humanized mouse embryonic stem cell-based disease model
Molecular mechanisms of BAP1 mutations in uveal melanoma
Allele-specific expression differences in the mouse embryonic hindbrain following prenatal alcohol exposure
Uncovering factors implicated in oncogenic NRAS modification by analyzing large scale functional genomic data sets
Related Programs
Same specialization
Doctor of Philosophy in Medical Genetics (PhD)
Further Information
Specialization
Medical Genetics
Faculty in Medical Genetics are at the forefront of their fields employing cutting edge genetic, epigenetic, genomic and bioinformatic methodologies to gain insight into diseases such as cancer, diabetes, obesity, neurodegenerative and neurological disorders, and other genetic diseases.
Areas of research Include:
Cancer Genetics & Genomics
Clinical Genetics, Genetic Counselling and Ethics & Policy
Developmental Genetics
DNA Repair & Genome Stability
Epigenetics, Epigenomics & Gene Regulation
Genetic Epidemiology & Population Genetics
Genomics & Bioinformatics
Immunogenetics
Neurogenetics & Neurodegenerative Disease Genetics
Pharmacogenomics
Proteomics
Stem Cells & Gene Therapy
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-graduate-and-postdoctoral-studies/degree-programs/medical-genetics
Program Website
https://medgen.med.ubc.ca/
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Medicine
Academic Unit
Department of Medical Genetics
Program Identifier
VGMMSC-P9
Classification
Quantitative genetics (including disease and trait mapping genetics)
Neurogenetics
Immunogenetics (including genetic immunology)
Cancer genetics
Clinical genetics (except cancer genetics)
Genetic medicine
Program Website
September 2025 Intake
Application Open Date
15 November 2024
Canadian Applicant Deadline
15 January 2025
International Applicant Deadline
15 January 2025
Program Enquiries
Still have questions after reviewing this page thoroughly?
Contact the program
Supervisor Search
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
Curious about life in Vancouver?
Find out how Vancouver enhances your graduate student experience—from the beautiful mountains and city landscapes, to the arts and culture scene, we have it all. Study-life balance at its best!
Learn more about life in Vancouver