Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/materials-engineering/

Materials Engineering
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
From the smallest nano-particles to massive mining challenges – materials engineering expertise is sought after in multiple industries worldwide. You'll start with the core material groups: metals, ceramics, polymers. and composites. By fourth year, you’ll be solving process-design problems and materials-selection solutions for diverse applications in transportation systems, fuel cells, supersonic aircraft, advanced computers, sports equipment, and biomedical devices.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Applied Science (Engineering)
Degree:
Bachelor of Applied Science (Engineering)
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Materials Engineering is concerned with the characterization, processing, and use in design of metallic and non-metallic materials. An optional Co-operative Education program is available that allows you to obtain twenty months of related experience in the last three years of your program.
Campus features
Leading-edge research is conducted by the Department of Materials engineering in biomaterials, ceramics, composites, hydrometallurgy, metals processing, and microstructure engineering. The Centre for Metallurgical Process Engineering at UBC is an internationally recognized interdisciplinary research centre focused on the development of advanced metallurgical processes and products.
The Advanced Materials and Process Engineering Laboratory (AMPEL) is a multi-disciplinary research centre with participation of research groups of engineers, scientists, and health scientists. AMPEL brings together top-level basic and applied research groups working at the forefront of research on materials and devices in a collaborative environment sharing expertise and modern research facilities.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
APSC 100 - Introduction to Engineering I
An introduction to the engineering profession including: roles and responsibilities of the engineer, the engineering disciplines, sustainability, an introduction to the engineering design process, introduction and application of the relevant foundational scientific principles, prototyping, engineering graphics, technical communication, and engineering ethics.
CHEM 154 - Chemistry for Engineering
Chemical bonding, properties of matter. Chemical thermodynamics with applications to phase equilibria, aqueous equilibria and electrochemistry. Processes at surfaces.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
PHYS 157 - Introductory Physics for Engineers I
Heat, thermodynamics, oscillations, waves, and sound.
PHYS 170 - Mechanics I
Statics of particles, equilibrium or rigid bodies, rigid body statics and internal forces, trusses; kinematics: rectilinear motion; dynamics:  Newton's second law, friction, impulse, momentum, work and energy.
APSC 278 - Engineering Materials
Atomic bonding; crystal structures and imperfections; properties of metals, ceramics, polymers, wood, concrete and fibre composite materials; selection of materials; corrosion; mechanical testing and heat treatment.
MATH 253 - Multivariable Calculus
Partial and directional derivatives; maxima and minima; Lagrange multipliers and second derivative test; multiple integrals and applications.
MTRL 201 - Technical Communication
Written and oral communication in business correspondence, engineering design methods, report preparation, and oral presentations of technical material. Restricted to students in second year of the Materials Engineering Program.
MECH 260 - Introduction to Mechanics of Materials
Statically determinate frames and trusses; normal and shear stresses and strains; shear force and bending moment diagrams; theory of beam bending, torsion of circular rods; transformation of stress and strain in two and three dimensions, Mohr's circle; yield and ultimate failure criteria.
MTRL 264 - Transport Phenomena II - Heat Transport
Conduction, forced and natural convection, and radiation.  Heat transfer with fluid flow, applications of heat exchange, and solidification of castings.
MTRL 340 - Manufacturing in Materials Engineering
Manufacturing processes from a materials perspective; metal casting, heat treating processes, forming processes, machining, and joining. Role of manufacturing in microstructure and material properties development and on component performance.
MTRL 358 - Hydrometallurgy I
Aqueous extraction of metals from ores and concentrates.
MTRL 365 - Mechanical Behaviour of Materials
Polycrystalline and single crystal deformation; dislocation theory; strengthening mechanisms; fracture mechanics; fatigue; high temperature deformation mechanisms.
MTRL 381 - Structure and Properties Laboratory
Structure and properties of ferrous and non-ferrous metals; heat treatment; hardenability; metallography; age hardening.
MTRL 392 - Engineering Technical Communication
Written and oral technical communication. Report preparation and oral presentation of technical information.
APSC 450 - Professional Engineering Practice
Legislation affecting the practice of engineering; ethical principles and responsibilities. Management of engineering enterprises; labour relations, safety and environmental legislation. Restricted to engineering undergraduate students in the final year of their program.
MTRL 455 - Economic Aspects of Materials Engineering
Time value of money, cash flows, capital and operating cost estimation, financial decision making and relevant case studies.
MTRL 456 - Environmental Degradation of Materials
Fundamental aspects of environmental degradation of metals (corrosion), ceramics, adn polymers, with an empasis on aqueous environments.
MTRL 466 - Engineering Project I
Design projects to illustrate the full spectrum of design encountered in Metals and Materials Engineering including the design of components, structures and processes used to manufacture materials.
MTRL 489 - Seminar III
Training and practice in public speaking and presentation of technical papers.
Your future
Your career opportunities will vary widely across a range of fields including electronics and advanced computers, automotive, medicine, consumer products, mining, equipment design and development, aerospace and manufacturing, and others.
Careers in Materials Engineering
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Applied Science (Engineering)
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
IB Chemistry
IB Physics
Academically strong candidates missing either IB Chemistry or IB Physics may be evaluated on a case-by-case basis
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Hívio, an Engineering student who came to UBC from Brazil
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC