Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/mathematics-vancouver-ba/

Mathematics (BA)
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Mathematics majors apply math, probability, statistics, and the principles of business and finance to analyze statistical data and assess business risks. Mathematics at UBC provides an excellent balance of pure and applied mathematics and is useful, important, and interesting.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
While it is traditionally considered a science, many Arts students specialize in Mathematics. The program offers a large selection of courses in various areas of pure and applied mathematics.
You can select an Honours, Major, Combined Major, or Minor in Mathematics, as well as programs combining Mathematics with another subject such as Economics, English, Linguistics, Music, or Philosophy. You are advised to consult a Mathematics advisor to design a coherent program of study suitable to your interests and abilities.
Campus features
The Living Mathematics Project hosted at UBC is working to apply recent advances in computer programming languages and the technology of the World Wide Web to construct a new medium for the communication of Mathematics.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
MATH 102 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Life Sciences
Functions, derivatives, optimization, growth and decay, discrete probability.
MATH 104 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Commerce and Social Sciences
Derivatives and rates of change, exponential and trigonometric functions, Newton's method, Taylor polynomials, maxima and minima, and graphing.
MATH 101 - Integral Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
The definite integral, integration techniques, applications, modeling, infinite series.
MATH 103 - Integral Calculus with Applications to Life Sciences
Antiderivatives and definite integrals, infinite series, applications to probability and dynamical systems.
MATH 217 - Multivariable and Vector Calculus
Partial differentiation, extreme values, multiple integration, vector fields, line and surface integrals, the divergence theorem, Green's and Stokes' theorems.  Intended for students in Honours Physics and Engineering Physics.
MATH 200 - Calculus III
Analytic geometry in 2 and 3 dimensions, partial and directional derivatives, chain rule, maxima and minima, second derivative test, Lagrange multipliers, multiple integrals with applications.
MATH 226 - Advanced Calculus I
Functions of several variables: limits, continuity, differentiability; implicit functions; Taylor's theorem; extrema; Lagrange multipliers; multiple integration, Fubini's theorem; improper integrals.
MATH 221 - Matrix Algebra
Systems of linear equations, operations on matrices, determinants, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, diagonalization of symmetric matrices.
MATH 318 - Probability with Physical Applications
Random variables, discrete and continuous distributions. Random walk, Markov chains, Monte Carlo methods. Characteristic functions, limit laws.
STAT 306 - Finding Relationships in Data
Modeling a response (output) variable as a function of several explanatory (input) variables:  multiple regression for a continuous response, logistic regression for a binary response, and log-linear models for count data.  Finding low-dimensional structure:  principal components analysis.  Cluster analysis.  (Consult the Credit Exclusion List within the Faculty of Science section in the Calendar).
CPSC 322 - Introduction to Artificial Intelligence
Problem-solving and planning; state/action models and graph searching. Natural language understanding Computational vision. Applications of artificial intelligence.
MATH 301 - Applied Analysis
Integrals involving multi-valued functions, conformal mapping and applications, analytic continuation, Laplace and Fourier transforms.
MATH 303 - Introduction to Stochastic Processes
Discrete-time Markov chains, Poisson processes, continuous time Markov chains, renewal theory.
MATH 418 - Probability
Probability spaces, random variables, distributions, expectation, conditional probabilities, convergence of random variables, generating and characteristic functions, weak and strong laws of large numbers, central limit theorem.
MATH 412 - Advanced Linear Algebra
Topics include decompositions of linear operators, multi linear algebra, bilinear forms, metric spaces.
STAT 404 - Design and Analysis of Experiments
Theory and application of analysis of variance for standard experimental designs, including blocked, nested, factorial and split plot designs. Fixed and random effects, multiple comparisons, analysis of covariance. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section in the Calendar).
CPSC 402 - Numerical Linear Algebra
Investigation of the practical techniques of computational linear algebra. Orthogonal transformations and their application to the solution of linear equations, the eigenproblem, and linear least squares. Complete solution of the symmetric eigenproblem, including bisection and the QR method. Refinements of these techniques for sparse matrices.
MATH 440 - Complex Analysis
The residue theorem, the argument principle, conformal mapping, the maximum modulus principle, harmonic functions, representation of functions by integrals, series, and products. Other topics at the discretion of the instructor.
Your future
Your career opportunities will vary widely across a range of fields including financial services, insurance, computer hardware/software design, health and pharmaceuticals, manufacturing, research, consulting, education, and others.
There are many career paths that can combine your academics, skills, and experience with your different interests, including:
Actuary
Algorithm designer
Appraiser
Bioinformatics scientist
Claims adjuster
Computer programmer
Cost analyst
Cryptanalyst
Data scientist
Database administrator
Careers with Mathematics
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life on Snapchat
Read admissions blog post
Meet Ronnie, a UBC student with a bright future in Mathematics and Computer Science
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC