Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/mechanical-engineering-vancouver/

Mechanical Engineering
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Mechanical Engineering is a diverse field that applies physics and mathematics to analyze, design, and maintain mechanical systems. Mechanical Engineers continuously innovate, then refine and simplify solutions to the problems we face in our everyday (and not-so-everyday) lives.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Applied Science (Engineering)
Degree:
Bachelor of Applied Science (Engineering)
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Mechanical Engineering provides a broad base of theory courses and practical design projects. You will enter Mechanical Engineering in your second year from the first-year General Engineering that is common to all Engineering programs. Options include Biomedical Engineering, Mechatronics, or Thermofluids.
In the final year, you can take courses in engineering economics and data analysis, controls, professional engineering practice, as well as complementary studies and technical electives. A year-long design course enables you to complete real design projects for local companies.
Specializations
Aerospace
Biomechanics & Medical Devices
Energy and Environment
Mechatronics
Naval Architecture & Marine Engineering
Campus features
Mechanical Engineering at UBC is a widely recognized program. Faculty research groups cover all of the major areas of mechanical engineering, including design and applied mechanics, fluid mechanics, thermodynamics and heat transfer, manufacturing, and controls. In addition to the main university library, the department maintains its own specialized library of engineering books and reference materials.
The department also has specialized facilities that are used for state-of-the-art research. These include wind tunnels, industrial robots, computer graphics workstations, and computer controlled machine tools. A supermileage vehicle, capable of 3,145 miles per one gallon of gas, designed by UBC Engineering students was recognized  by
Time
magazine as a best invention of the year.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
APSC 100 - Introduction to Engineering I
An introduction to the engineering profession including: roles and responsibilities of the engineer, the engineering disciplines, sustainability, an introduction to the engineering design process, introduction and application of the relevant foundational scientific principles, prototyping, engineering graphics, technical communication, and engineering ethics.
CHEM 154 - Chemistry for Engineering
Chemical bonding, properties of matter. Chemical thermodynamics with applications to phase equilibria, aqueous equilibria and electrochemistry. Processes at surfaces.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
PHYS 157 - Introductory Physics for Engineers I
Heat, thermodynamics, oscillations, waves, and sound.
PHYS 170 - Mechanics I
Statics of particles, equilibrium or rigid bodies, rigid body statics and internal forces, trusses; kinematics: rectilinear motion; dynamics:  Newton's second law, friction, impulse, momentum, work and energy.
MATH 253 - Multivariable Calculus
Partial and directional derivatives; maxima and minima; Lagrange multipliers and second derivative test; multiple integrals and applications.
MECH 220 - Technical Skills Practicum
Engineering graphics, spatial visualization, CAD, equation solvers, machine shop practice, electronic circuit construction and troubleshooting, elements of engineering science.
MECH 221 - Engineering Science I
Rigid body kinetics and kinematics, basic electrical circuits, work and power, stress and strain, torsion, bending, engineering materials, probability and statistics. This course includes the content of ELEC 203.
MECH 222 - Engineering Science II
Fluid properties, equations of state. Pressure, buoyancy, hydrostatic forces. Conservation of mass, momentum, and energy. Work and heat; internal energy and enthalpy. Bernoulli's equation. Dimensional analysis, modeling. Turbulent flow in pipes; turbomachinery. Second law and the Carnot cycle; entropy; first and second law analysis of systems.
MECH 225 - Integration of Engineering Concepts II
Integration of the theory and practice of Mechanical Engineering to illustrate the commonality and conceptual connectivity of seemingly different technical areas. Emphasis on thermodynamics, fluid mechanics, and mathematics.
MECH 305 - Data Analysis and Mechanical Engineering Laboratories
The use of probability and statistical methods for engineering applications. Mechanics of materials, heat transfer, and fluid dynamics. Instrumentation, data acquisition, and data manipulation using modern computational tools.
MECH 327 - Thermodynamics II
Air standard and vapor cycles; first and second law of cycles. Exergy. Gas mixtures.  Energy conservation. Equilibrium. Reacting systems. Application to thermofluid systems such as power plants.
MECH 358 - Engineering Analysis
Fourier series; auto- and cross-correlation; power spectra; discrete Fourier transform; boundary-value problems; numerical methods; partial differential equations; heat, wave, Laplace, Poisson, and wave equations.  Applications to mechanical engineering and practical computing emphasized.
MECH 368 - Engineering Measurements and Instrumentation
Industrial measurement needs including: architecture of electronic instrumentation systems; electrical representation of physical quantities; sensors and actuators; analog signal processing using linear and non-linear circuits; computer based readout including programming for user-interface and data acquisition.
MECH 380 - Fluid Dynamics
Review of principles, compressible flow, potential flow, simple laminar viscous flow, boundary layers, flow around bluff bodies.
APSC 450 - Professional Engineering Practice
Legislation affecting the practice of engineering; ethical principles and responsibilities. Management of engineering enterprises; labour relations, safety and environmental legislation. Restricted to engineering undergraduate students in the final year of their program.
ELEC 344 - Applied Electronics and Electromechanics
Characteristics of semiconductor devices; analog circuits; force and torque production; motor principles and torque-speed characteristics; principles of power electronics. Not open to students in Electrical and Computer Engineering.
MECH 463 - Mechanical Vibrations
Theory of vibration of mechanical systems. Undamped 1 degree of freedom vibration, forced vibrations and resonance, damping, multiple degree of freedom systems, mode shapes and orthogonality, continuous systems, vibration measuring instruments and frequency spectrum analysis.
MECH 431 - Engineering Economics
Discounted cash flows. Sources of funds, cost of capital. Effects of depreciation, taxes, inflation. Evaluation and comparison of economic models for engineering projects. Replacement decisions. Public project analysis. Risk analysis. Project control, inventory analysis, simulation.
MECH 466 - Automatic Control
Process and system characteristics; transient response; the closed loop; block diagrams and transfer functions; control actions; stability; Nyquist diagrams; Bode diagrams; root locus methods; frequency response; system compensation; nonlinear control systems; digital computer control. Laboratory experiments to support the lecture content. Credit cannot be obtained for both MECH 466 and MECH 467.
Your future
Your career opportunities will vary widely across a range of fields including aerospace, automotive, renewable energy, oil and gas, automation, mechatronics, aviation and marine management, and product design, and others.
Careers with Mechanical Engineering
UBC stories
"Engineering is about building a toolbox that allows you to tackle all of the new and unique problems the world will throw at you as an engineer. I loved getting my hands dirty, and UBC offered me great opportunities to do this like joining student design teams and engaging in internships and co-ops."
Andrew K., Mechanical Engineering
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Applied Science (Engineering)
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
IB Chemistry
IB Physics
Academically strong candidates missing either IB Chemistry or IB Physics may be evaluated on a case-by-case basis
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Milind, an Electrical Engineering student who went from UBC undergrad to PhD candidate at Cambridge
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC