Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/medieval-studies/

Medieval Studies
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Through a study of the medieval period, you can come to an understanding of a civilization as a whole in both its unity and diversity. Study of the Middle Ages teaches you to critically evaluate the use of the past in the present and provide a necessary corrective to our culturally ingrained misconceptions about the medieval and pre-modern world.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The Medieval Studies program is an interdisciplinary study of the medieval period. You can develop a coherent understanding of the civilization as a whole in both its unity and diversity. You can select a Major or Minor in Medieval Studies.
Campus features
UBC has study exchange programs with many universities in Europe, including Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Students can study in a region related to their interests for up to two terms, and earn credits for their UBC degree.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
HIST 101 - World History to Oceanic Contact
Origins and diffusion of the world's great religions; cultural contact along overland trade routes; emergence of civilizations such as the Inca, Chinese, and Christian European; ordering of societies and their political development.
CLST 110 - Golden Age of Athens
The history and culture, values, and achievements of fifth-century Athens.
CLST 111 - Late Republican and Early Imperial Rome
The history and culture, values, and achievements of Late Republican and Early Imperial Rome.
MUSC 120 - History of Music I
An overview of Western music from antiquity through the Middle Ages and Renaissance, providing a framework for understanding musical styles and practices, and examining selected compositions in greater analytical and historical depth.
MDVL 210 - Introduction to Medieval Studies
A survey of the study of the medieval period in Western Europe (400-1550), integrating history, literature, and the arts; topics vary from year to year; interested students should consult the Medieval Studies Advisor.
CLST 232 - Ancient Rome
A survey of the ancient Roman world from the foundation of the city to the death of Constantine.
ARTH 225 - Art in Europe to the Sixteenth Century
A selective survey of painting, sculpture, and architecture.
PHIL 212 - Greek Philosophy II
Aristotle; selections from Hellenistic and Late Antique Philosophy. Recommended as preparation for PHIL 310.
MDVL 302 - European Literature from the 14th to the 16th Century
Selected works of the Late Middle Ages and Renaissance in their cultural and social contexts.
ASIA 344 - Topics in Japanese Cultural History I: Aristocrats and Warriors
Focuses each year on a specific topic related to the courtly or warrior culture of Japan.
NEST 310 - History of Women in Early to Late Medieval Muslim Societies
Realities of Muslim Women's lives are reconstructed through a critical examination of a variety of literary and material sources.
ARBC 420 - Supervised Study in Classical Arabic
Religious and literary Arabic texts pertaining to the early and medieval Islamic world.
ARTH 432 - Seminar in the Art of the Middle Ages
HIST 474 - Ideas and Religions of the Middle Ages
A survey and exploration of the development, interpenetration, conflict, and transformation of various intellectual and religious traditions during the Middle Ages.
ITST 415 - Topics in the Italian Literature and Culture of the Renaissance in Translation
Masterpieces of the Italian Renaissance in literature and the other arts. Authors and artists studied range from Pico to Ariosto and Machiavelli, from Botticelli to Leonardo and Michelangelo. Precludes credit for ITAL 405.
RELG 408 - Topics in Medieval Judaism
The work of Maimonides and other Jewish philosophers, early developments in Jewish mysticism, the Jews as a minority culture in Islamic and Christian lands.
Your future
Your career opportunities will vary widely across a range of fields including museums, libraries, education, publishing, communications, cultural and non-profit organizations, tourism, government, and others.
There are many career paths that can combine your academics, skills, and experience with your different interests, including:
Archivist
Auctioneer
Biographer
Charitable organization director
Collections manager
Communications specialist
Community development worker
Museum educator
Records technician
Careers with Medieval Studies
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Dr. Richards: A UBC professor and archaeologist
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC