Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/medicine/

Medicine
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Visit program website
UBC’s Doctor of Medicine (MD) undergraduate program equips you with the knowledge, training, and experience you need to meet the health care challenges of today and tomorrow. As an MD student, you'll work alongside faculty members and physicians to learn the foundations of medicine and patient-centred care, while honing your clinical skills at hospital wards, community clinics, and doctors’ offices in urban and rural settings across British Columbia.
Why this program?
Learn the foundations of medicine and patient-centred care
Gain hands-on clinical experience, training with physicians and health professionals in urban and rural communities
Explore your unique interests and expand your knowledge through self-directed research projects and global health experiences
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Faculty:
Faculty of Medicine
Degree:
Doctor of Medicine
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
No
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Representing the first fully distributed medical education program in Canada, UBC’s MD undergraduate program offers the opportunity to train at one of four geographically distinct sites in British Columbia: UBC’s Vancouver campus in Vancouver (Vancouver-Fraser Medical Program), UBC’s Okanagan campus in Kelowna (Southern Medical Program), the University of Victoria on Vancouver Island (Island Medical Program), or the University of Northern British Columbia in Prince George (Northern Medical Program).
Vancouver-Fraser Medical Program
Southern Medical Program
Island Medical Program
Northern Medical Program
Experiential learning and research
During the clinical years of the program (years three and four), you’ll work in hospital wards, community clinics, and doctors’ offices across BC, meeting patients and working closely with a wide range of health professionals. As an MD student, you’ll also have an opportunity to pursue your passion for health research and further develop your clinical skills through a variety of initiatives:
Summer Student Research Program
Explore your interests in medical research by undertaking a project during the summer.
Flexible Enhanced Learning (FLEX)
Explore your interests and passions in greater depth with FLEX activities in academic settings and communities in BC, across Canada, or internationally.
Integrated Community Clerkship
Instead of completing a traditional hospital-based clerkship in your third year, consider joining the Integrated Community Clerkship. You’ll be assigned to a family physician and follow patients through their cycle of treatment.
Healthcare Travelling Roadshow
Inspire the next generation of doctors and health care professionals during the annual Healthcare Travelling Roadshow in Northern BC and the Southern Interior.
Summer Student Research Program
Integrated Community Clerkship
Healthcare Travelling Roadshow
Campus features
With a strong focus on innovation, technology, and patient-centred care, UBC’s MD program will provide you with invaluable training at state-of-the-art facilities and hospitals across the province:
Vancouver-Fraser Medical Program
Attend lectures at the Life Sciences Centre on UBC’s Vancouver campus and the Gordon and Leslie Diamond Health Care Centre next to Vancouver General Hospital.
Southern Medical Program
Learn at the Reichwald Health Sciences Centre on UBC’s Okanagan campus, which features classrooms and lecture theatres, research and teaching laboratories, and administration and faculty offices.
Island Medical Program
Learn at the Medical Sciences Building at the University of Victoria, which features lecture theatres, laboratories, computer labs, and problem-based learning and clinical skills rooms.
Northern Medical Program
Learn at the Dr. Donald Rix Northern Health Sciences Centre at the University of Northern British Columbia, which features lecture theatres, laboratories, and small-group learning rooms.
Send details
Why this program?
Learn the foundations of medicine and patient-centred care
Gain hands-on clinical experience, training with physicians and health professionals in urban and rural communities
Explore your unique interests and expand your knowledge through self-directed research projects and global health experiences
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Your future
As an MD student, you’ll receive the extensive education, training, and mentorship you need to become a doctor. With this solid foundation, graduates have successfully secured medical residency positions in areas ranging from family medicine and pediatrics, to cardiology and emergency medicine.
Program graduates
UBC Family Medicine Resident, Abbotsford, BC
UBC Family Medicine Resident, Prince George, BC
UBC Family Medicine Resident, Kelowna, BC
UBC Dermatology Resident, Vancouver, BC
UBC Family Medicine Resident, South Okanagan, BC
View larger image
Your future as an MD graduate
Your future as an MD graduate
Related programs
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Sara: A Nursing alumna whose volunteer work has been internationally recognized
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC