Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/media-studies/

Media Studies
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Gain experience in the creation and critical dissection of media across forms, and its multifaceted influence on society, while becoming a member of a collaborative community of students, scholars, and creative professionals. This cohort-based interdisciplinary program includes a core curriculum of courses from across the Faculty of Arts and BMS-exclusive interdisciplinary MDIA courses, alongside media focus areas for you to specialize. The BMS provides the breadth and depth of skills, knowledge, and experience needed to thrive in rapidly-evolving media fields.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Why this program?
Collaborate with like-minded peers in coordinated classes with a specialized, dynamic cohort.
Build applicable skills through a curriculum that incorporates practical experience with theory and research.
Create public-facing media projects while gaining implementing professional skills working with community partners.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Media Studies
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
With competencies in theory, research, and application, the Media Studies program prepares you for a rewarding and dynamic career in media, whether your aspirations are academically- or professionally-oriented. Dissecting how meaning is represented and mediated, the program’s courses and expanded learning opportunities promote critical thinking, reflection, and analysis, equipping students to become socially engaged scholars and makers that use media to contribute to the greater good as creative agents of transformation.
Required courses include a purposeful disciplinary core covering a diverse range of media perspectives and methodologies, including:
Art History and Visual Art
Creative Writing
Journalism
Cinema Studies and Film Production
Computer Science
Information Studies
English and German Studies
The BMS bridges disciplinary boundaries in the classroom through its MDIA courses, most of which are exclusive to the program. With multiple expert instructors and professionals from the field teaching together, you and your cohort will engage in media production, critically investigating and applying your learning in an environment that models the collaborative environment of workplaces across the field.
In addition to required courses, you’ll expand the depth of your knowledge and skills in one media studies area of focus, chosen between visual, narrative, and data. Starting in second year, these additional courses allow you to dive deeper into the theory and production of media—and how each informs the other—of your area of focus. In fourth year, you’ll have the opportunity to enroll in a hands-on Digital Media project class at the Centre for Digital Media, and other course options available to Media Studies students.
Subject to an evaluation of your supplemental portfolio submission by an admissions committee, and competitive academic average, you can apply for entry to the four-year program direct from high school, or, with one year of postsecondary studies and prerequisite coursework completed, you may apply to transfer into the program for entry into the second-year cohort.
Experiential learning and research
Experiential learning is built into the Media Studies curriculum. Core courses each year include community-based components, where you’ll partner with local organizations to execute media projects that implement classroom learning in real-world scenarios while benefiting the community. Expanded into a truly interdisciplinary environment, you’ll also take courses under the MDIA subject code, which are specifically designed for Media Studies students to bridge knowledge from different disciplines and practice media prototyping and production for various audiences.
The Media Studies program structure facilitates your participation in relevant learning opportunities outside of the program. You’ll have the opportunity to study abroad in third year or gain work experience through UBC’s Work Learn and Co-op programs—even within the cohort-based model, term 2 of the third year is reserved so you can take advantage of the countless other experiences UBC has to offer. You’ll have many opportunities inside and outside the classroom to work on projects that add to your portfolio, such as with the
Ubyssey
, UBC Vancouver’s student newspaper, the student-published
Beacon: Journal of Media Studies
, the Media Studies Student Association, or with the 300+ student clubs at the University.
Send details
Why this program?
Collaborate with like-minded peers in coordinated classes with a specialized, dynamic cohort.
Build applicable skills through a curriculum that incorporates practical experience with theory and research.
Create public-facing media projects while gaining implementing professional skills working with community partners.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
MDIA 150 - Media Communities
Media engagement with community partners through data, narrative and visual processes.
MDIA 100 - Media Objects
Multidisciplinary perspectives on contemporary media objects and their effects.
VISA 110 - Foundation Studio: Digital Media
Foundation instruction in techniques and approaches to digital practice. The nature of digital technologies and their role in contemporary culture will be examined. (This course is open to all UBC students, regardless of prior experience.)
JRNL 100 - New Media and Society
Development of new media technologies, their applications, and their cultural, political, and social impacts.
INFO 100 - (De)coding Information and Why it Matters
Information and data as concepts and aspects of everyday experience. Creation, sharing, authorization, and valuing of information with implications for society. Critical perspectives and practices to engage with data, information, and technologies for personal productivity, scholarly inquiry, and civic engagement.
MDIA 290 - Collaborative Methods
Development and practice of media group production processes. Restricted to BMS students with 2nd year standing or above.
ENGL 232 - Approaches to Media Studies
Approaches to the study of media: philosophical; technological; cultural; theoretical. For ENGL courses at the 200- or 300- level, prior completion of at least one 100- level ENGL course is recommended.
GMST 274 - The Frankfurt School
Foundations of critical theory, and key media and cultural studies concepts developed by the members of the Frankfurt Institute of Social Research (1923 -), their collaborators and followers.
INFO 250 - Networks, Crowds, and Communities
Introduces network concepts and methods for exploring social and organizational connectivity for work, socializing, and knowledge production. Examines impact of social media on connections that span space and place; peer production on authority structures; ubiquitous mobile connectivity on daily life.
FIPR 133 - Introduction to Film and Media Production
A hands-on introduction to Film and Multi/New Media production, focusing on fundamental techniques for creating effective presentations.
MDIA 300 - Approaches to Writing for Media Studies
Interdisciplinary perspectives of thematic topics in contemporary media and related theory with focused attention on writing practices. Restricted to BMS students with 3rd year standing.
MDIA 350 - Media Environments
Collaborative planning and activation of media interfaces for stakeholders informed by multidisciplinary approaches.
CRWR 312 - Interactive Storytelling
Origin, theory and practice of interactive story forms. Exploring structural links between interactive theatre, gaming, and extended (virtual, mixed, and augmented) reality.
CPSC 344 - Introduction to Human Computer Interaction Methods
Basic tools and techniques, teaching a systematic approach to interface design, task analysis, analytic and empirical evaluation methods.
VISA 312 - Expanded Visual Media
Pre- and/or post-production strategies, techniques, and processes for time-based media effects. Credit will only be granted for one of THFL 312 or VISA 312.
MDIA 450 - Capstone Media Projects
Advanced media works created in collaboration with community partners for public impact.
MDIA 490 - Emerging Media Practitioners
The roles and responsibilities of media producers as agents of transformation, with a focus on the student's own media decisions and artefacts.
CINE 340 - Media Audiences
Overview of approaches for studying audiences and receptions of film and contemporary media.
JRNL 440 - Imagine Journalism Studio
Journalism startups and media innovation from practice, organizational models, audiences, leadership, theories of change, entrepreneurship and critical perspectives.
INFO 419 - Information Visualization
Basic theory and practice required to visually represent information. Introduces design principles and practical skills to create effective information visualizations. Examines effect of different visual representations on understanding and meaning.
Follow this program
Follow on Instagram
View larger image
UBC's Vancouver campus
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
The Bachelor of Media Studies program at UBC's Vancouver campus delivers course offerings taught by distinguished faculty across ten different disciplines. With a small cohort structure and low student-to-faculty ratios, you have the opportunity to form deep bonds with peers and connect with your mentors on a more personal level while building expertise in creative professional settings.
Find out more
Your future
The Media Studies program at UBC Vancouver is unique for its program structure that covers both a breadth and depth of relevant media topics, equipping students with concrete practical and collaborative skills as well as the theoretical knowledge and critical perspective that enable them to become ethical contributors and thrive both when they enter the workforce and throughout their career as the field demands shift.
Graduates are well-equipped to flourish in collaborative environments, facilitate project vision and management, and work with teams within and between individuals, organizations, and communities. The program opens the door to a broad range of future career possibilities as cultural technologists and impact producers, whether in communications, human–computer interaction, filmmaking, journalism, or beyond. Possibilities are as endless as the media themselves!
UBC stories
"The Media Studies community is a tight-knit group of friends, and I’m exposed to a lot of extremely creative people with an abundance of intriguing ideas and knowledge to share."
Jayden E., Bachelor of Media Studies
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Media Studies
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Portfolio submission
Strongly recommended: IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
Ready to chooose your degree?
Apply to UBC