Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/microbiology/

Microbiology
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Explore fascinating new worlds at the microscopic level in microbiology, the study of life too small to see with the naked eye. This program will prepare you for a career in microbiology, in fields ranging from public policy and medical sciences, to renewable energy and pollution control.
Why this program?
Work with renowned faculty researchers exploring topics such as gene regulation, immune responses, and susceptibility to inflammatory bowel disease
Take advantage of world-class research facilities, including the Centre for Microbiome and Inflammatory Research
Benefit from hands-on and in-the-field learning
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
This program is designed to provide you with a breadth of knowledge in microbiology as it applies to the environment, health, and industry. It will help you develop a wide range of lab, communication, and critical thinking skills. As a graduate of the program, you’ll be prepared to either begin a career in the food and beverage industry, health sciences, or environmental sciences, or to continue on to graduate school or a professional program in medicine or dentistry.
Experiential learning and research
Participate in original research – either your own or a professor’s in your field. The Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science supports student research through the Undergraduate Research Awards, which allow students to carry out their own projects over the summer months, and other awards, which provide opportunities to work with professors on their research. You’ll also have the opportunity to take your studies abroad with the Go Global and Exchange and Research Abroad programs.
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science Undergraduate Research Awards
NSERC Undergraduate Student Research Awards
Go Global
Exchange and Research Abroad
Tuum Est Student Initiative Fund
Campus features
UBC’s Okanagan campus is home to a number of world-class research facilities, including the Centre for Microbiome and Inflammatory Research and the Okanagan Institute for Biodiversity, Resilience, and Ecosystem Services (BRAES). BRAES is a consortium of UBC faculty members and students, collaborators, and partner organizations working together to advance research and teaching in conservation and ecology.
Okanagan Institute for Biodiversity, Resilience, and Ecosystem Services
Centre for Microbiome and Inflammatory Research
Send details
Why this program?
Work with renowned faculty researchers exploring topics such as gene regulation, immune responses, and susceptibility to inflammatory bowel disease
Take advantage of world-class research facilities, including the Centre for Microbiome and Inflammatory Research
Benefit from hands-on and in-the-field learning
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
BIOL 116 - Biology for Science Majors I
First of a pair of courses that introduce students to the biological concepts necessary to continue into second-year biology. Covers evolutionary theory and its underlying genetic basis, basic cell biology, plant and animal nutrition, and energy acquisition. Credit will be granted for only BIOL 116/125 or BIOL 117/122.
BIOL 125 - Biology for Science Majors II
Continuation of BIOL 116. Introduction to biological concepts necessary for second-year biology. Physiology of reproduction, gas exchange, inter-organ transport, inter-organ coordination in plants and animals, and excretion and movement in animals. Ecosystem, population, community, and behavioural ecology are discussed.
CHEM 121 - Atomic and Molecular Chemistry
Stoichiometry, atomic and molecular structure, chemical periodicity, gases, liquids, solids, and solutions. Required course for all students needing a first-year Chemistry course who have Chemistry 12.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions, limits. Covers applications and modelling: graphing and optimization.
PHYS 111 - Introductory Physics for the Physical Sciences I
Introduction to mechanics primarily for students majoring in the physical sciences (e.g. physics, chemistry, mathematics, computer science, geology, physical geography) or engineering. Particle kinematics and dynamics, work and energy, momentum, gravitation, rigid body motion, fluid statics and dynamics with applications to the physical sciences. Students with Physics 12 may apply for a tutorial exemption.
BIOL 200 - Cell Biology
Structure and function of plant and animal cells; membrane models, cytoplasmic organelles, biological information from gene to protein, the endomembrane system, secretion, intracellular digestion, endocytosis, transport processes, cytoskeleton and cell motility.
BIOL 201 - Introduction to Evolution and Ecology
Fundamental processes underlying adaptive evolution, speciation, and extinction. Methods used to reconstruct the evolutionary histories of, and relationships among, groups of organisms. Factors determining the distribution and abundance of organisms. Competition, predation, and an exploration of processes that promote species coexistence and lead to the maintenance of species diversity.
BIOL 202 - Introduction to Biostatistics
Introduction to statistics, with emphasis on the application of commonly applied parametric and non-parametric statistical methods in the biological sciences. Use of computer software to manage data, conduct statistical analyses, and report findings in publishable formats.
BIOL 265 - Principles of Genetics
Mendelian genetics, gene expression, recombination, mutation, evolution, and molecular techniques. Examples will be drawn from both eukaryotic and prokaryotic systems.
CHEM 203 - Introduction to Organic Chemistry
Structure, bonding, and physical properties of aliphatic and aromatic compounds; conformational analysis, stereochemistry, and NMR spectroscopy; substitution and elimination reactions of alkyl halides; ethers, epoxides, aldehydes, ketones. Credit will not be granted for only one of CHEM 203 or CHEM 213.
BIOL 314 - Medical Microbiology
Bacterial and fungal agents of infectious animal diseases. Physiology and structure, mechanisms of pathogenesis, immunological response, clinical disease caused, epidemiology, laboratory diagnosis, treatment, prevention, and control. Properties and uses of antibacterial and antifungal agents, resistance, vaccines, and bioterrorism.
BIOL 330 - Freshwater Microbiology
Integrates taxonomy, physiology, and ecosystem functioning of freshwater microbes. Effects of microbial activities in perturbed aquatic environments will be examined. Labs introduce basic and advanced techniques for identification, enumeration, and measuring biogeochemical activity within an aquatic and experimental context. Note: this course will be offered on alternate years.
BIOL 366 - Molecular Genetics
Stresses the principles of molecular biology techniques and their relevance to the study of all areas of biology. Gene expression, gene regulation, and development genetics.
BIOL 381 - Environmental Microbiology
Introduction to the diverse roles of microbes in natural and artificial environments. Topics range from community interactions to biogeochemical cycles to biodegradation and will introduce principles, practical applications, and implications of environmental microbiology.
BIOL 311 - Biochemistry I
Structure and function of proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleic acids. Principles of thermodynamics and enzyme reaction mechanisms. Enzyme kinetics. Credit will only be granted for one of BIOL 311 or BIOC 304.
BIOC 493 - Biotechnology Laboratory
Current methods in biotechnology will be demonstrated, including the use of biotechnological techniques and tools in such areas as molecular biology, microbiology, and biochemistry.
BIOL 410 - Plant-Microbe Interactions
Ecological, physiological, and molecular perspectives will be covered on root-associated micro-organisms with the potential to benefit plants. Implications for agriculture, forestry, bioremediation, and conservation.
BIOL 420 - Special Topics in Biology
With permission of the unit, this course may be taken more than once with a different topic.
BIOL 480 - Mycology
A detailed examination of the fungi. Emphasis is on taxonomy, evolution, genetics, ecology, and physiology of the Chytridiomycota, Zygomycota, Glomeromycota, Ascomycota, and Basidiomycota. The seminar emphasizes discussion and interpretation of primary literature, and quantitative data.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Aerial view of UBC's Okanagan campus
Life at UBC's Okanagan campus
UBC's Okanagan campus is renowned for its research opportunities and access to professors. On a tight-knit campus like the Okanagan’s, you’ll be able to work closely with award-winning faculty and make meaningful connections with your peers. Professors are collaborating with student researchers on cutting-edge projects like gene regulation, immune responses, and inflammatory bowel disease.
Find out more
Your future
Graduates from the Microbiology program on UBC’s Okanagan campus are equipped to work in:
Health sciences
Environmental sciences
Food and beverage industries
Forestry and agriculture
Dentistry
Medicine
UBC stories
"My time at the BC Cancer Agency is the greatest learning and clinical health care experience I have had. I heard from other students working on research projects at the BC Cancer Agency that each year, the Kelowna centre hires students for summer positions. I simply reached out to the centre to apply for a position."
Bhavan Panghali, Microbiology
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics is strongly recommended
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Meet Nagi: A Collegia Assistant and international student studying on UBC's Okanagan campus
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC