Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/microbiology-immunology/

Microbiology and Immunology
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
UBC's department of Microbiology and Immunology is a leading centre for the study of bacteria, fungi, and viruses, and their roles in human health and disease, agriculture, natural ecosystems, energy, and global sustainability. The department is known for its work in the human microbiome and immune system and how they affect human health, including warding off infection, cancers, or autoimmune diseases. You'll build foundational knowledge in microbiology and immunology and develop the expert knowledge and skills required to work in a range of relevant fields.
Why this program?
Flexible specialization with concentrations in biotechnology, molecular microbiology, environmental microbiology, virology, and more.
Strong emphasis on laboratory work and undergraduate research.
Pair with Computer Science, Oceanography, or Biotechnology for a combined major/honours that best reflects your interests.
Prepare for graduate or professional studies such as medical, dental, law, or veterinary medicine.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Microbiology and Immunology offers major or honours degrees that provide an in-depth knowledge of microbes and their interactions with the environment, and how they relate to human and environmental health. You’ll acquire laboratory skills in bacterial and eukaryotic cell culture and phenotyping, genomics, and data science. Our programs are distinguished by authentic course-based research experiences and opportunities to work in world-leading research labs. In your final year, you’ll engage in seminar courses focused on recent research discoveries pioneered by leading scientists in the field.
The Department of Microbiology and Immunology faculty are affiliated with the multidisciplinary Life Sciences Institute (LSI) and the Michael Smith Laboratories (MSL). The LSI is the largest institute in Canada with a mission is to perform innovative, interdisciplinary science focused on discovering the fundamental biological mechanisms underlying health and disease, and to translate this knowledge into new therapies. The Michael Smith Laboratories, named after the late Nobel laureate UBC professor, are located in the heart of campus, and bring together first-class scientists to solve biological problems using genetic engineering techniques.
Send details
Why this program?
Flexible specialization with concentrations in biotechnology, molecular microbiology, environmental microbiology, virology, and more.
Strong emphasis on laboratory work and undergraduate research.
Pair with Computer Science, Oceanography, or Biotechnology for a combined major/honours that best reflects your interests.
Prepare for graduate or professional studies such as medical, dental, law, or veterinary medicine.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
BIOL 112 - Biology of the Cell
The principles of cellular and molecular biology using bacterial and eukaryotic examples.
BIOL 121 - Genetics, Evolution and Ecology
Principles of storage and transmission of genetic variation; origin and evolution of species and their ecological interactions.
CHEM 121 - Structure and Bonding in Chemistry
Fundamentals of bonding theories and structural chemistry, with applications relevant to modern society.
MATH 102 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Life Sciences
Functions, derivatives, optimization, growth and decay, discrete probability.
MICB 211 - Foundations of Microbiology
Prokaryotic diversity and the impact and applications of microbial metabolic, genetic, and growth processes in environmental contexts. Bacteria-human interactions in health and disease, mode of action of antibiotics and antibiotic resistance, virulence factors of bacteria, and host response to infection.
MICB 212 - Introductory Immunology & Virology
Innate and adaptive immune responses to bacterial and viral pathogens, autoimmunity, allergies and graft rejection; virus structure, replication cycles, pathogenesis and vaccines; data analysis of foundational immunology and virology experiments.
BIOL 200 - Fundamentals of Cell Biology
Structure and function of plant and animal cells; membrane models, cytoplasmic organelles, biological information from gene to protein, the endomembrane system, secretion, intracellular digestion, endocytosis, transport processes, cytoskeleton and cell motility.
BIOL 201 - Introduction to Biochemistry
Biological molecules, protein structure and enzyme action, energy transfer, central metabolic pathways and their regulation. Examples drawn from plants, animals and microorganisms. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section of the Calendar.)
CHEM 205 - Physical Chemistry
Chemical kinetics and thermodynamics and spectroscopy useful in biological, medical, agricultural, earth, and related sciences.
MICB 306 - Molecular Virology
Introduction to virus structure and replication. Detailed examination of selected viruses including polio, HIV and cancer-causing retroviruses. Development of vaccines and anti-viral drugs, the use of virus vectors to cure genetic diseases.
MICB 301 - Microbial Ecophysiology
Dynamics and control of prokaryotic cellular processes in response to the biotic and abiotic environment including metabolic interactions and metabolic cooperation between microorganisms.
MICB 322 - Molecular Microbiology Laboratory
Aseptic handling and characterization of microbes, growth properties, enzyme assays, protein analysis and plasmid isolation. Restricted to students in Microbiology and Immunology specializations.
MICB 302 - Immunology
Mechanisms of innate and adaptive immune responses.  Hematopoiesis, development of T and B lymphocytes, leukocyte migration, antigen processing/presentation and the major histocompatibility complex, immune responses against pathogens, and diseases associated with aberrant immune responses.
MICB 325 - Analysis of Microbial Genes and Genomes
Genetic, molecular biological and bioinformatic approaches for the analysis of microbial genomes, gene structure-function and gene expression with emphasis on bacteria.
MICB 406 - Topics in Molecular Virology
Presentations, library research, paper reviews, class discussions about current research in virology. Topics such as molecular targets in viral therapy; chronic viral infection; virus-host cell interaction.
BIOC 302 - General Biochemistry
Metabolic reactions of lipids, steroids, amino acids and nucleotides; the biochemistry of replication, transcription and translation.
MICB 475 - Data Science Research in Microbiology and Immunology
A team-based data science research experience in microbiology and immunology.
MICB 471 - Laboratory Research in Microbiology and Immunology
A team-based laboratory research experience in microbiology and immunology.
MICB 408 - Bioinformatics
Computational methods to analyze genome and protein sequences to derive structural and functional information. Related topics in functional genomics.
Follow this program
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Biological Sciences Building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
The Department of Microbiology and Immunology’s undergraduate teaching labs are housed in the new state-of-the-art Biosciences Teaching building, where you'll gain foundational laboratory and research skills. You'll experience to a broad range of undergraduate research opportunities including directed studies courses in the laboratories of our research faculty; co-op work experiences in academic, industrial, and government labs; as well as co-curricular student-driven programs such as the International Genetically Engineered Machines (iGEM) and BioMod teams.
Find out more
Your future
The Microbiology and Immunology specialization is designed to provide you with a strong grounding in microbiology, immunology, bacteriology, virology, and molecular biology. It also equips you with the practical skills of a well-rounded scientist, such as how to analyze and interpret data, conduct lab research, and to think critically.
Upon graduation, you will be prepared to enter the thriving life sciences industry or graduate school in related biological science disciplines, as well as professional schools such as medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, law, and journalism.
Program graduates
Research Associate, StemCell technologies
Dentist, Dr. James Y. Y. Hsia Inc.
Medical student, The University of British Columbia
Graduate student, Cambridge University
Law student, The University of British Columbia
UBC stories
One of the most profound supports I received is the work opportunities provided through the Work Learn program and co-op program. I worked on the procurement team of a Vancouver-based biotechnology firm for eight months as a co-op student.
Angela Sunario, Microbiology and Immunology
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry, and
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Al, a lover of books and bacteria who double majored in English Literature and Microbiology
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC