Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/midwifery/

Midwifery
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Visit program website
The Midwifery Program at UBC has been preparing midwives since 2002 and provides a high-quality, clinically-based educational experience that allows you to enter directly into practice following registration. UBC Midwifery graduates are working as midwives across all settings in British Columbia and across Canada.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Medicine
Degree:
Bachelor of Midwifery
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
No
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The UBC Bachelor Degree in Midwifery provides classroom education and clinical experience to meet the core competencies for midwifery practice published by the Canadian Midwifery Regulators Council and the BC College of Nurses and Midwives.
The degree is available  to Canadian citizens and permanent residents only. UBC Midwifery strives to enrol applicants who match the diversity of childbearing families in British Columbia. Twenty students are admitted annually with two of those seats reserved for applicants from other Canadian provinces.
If you have already trained as a midwife in a different country, you can join the
Internationally Educated Midwives Bridging Program (IEMBP)
.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
MIDW 101 - Counselling for Maternity Care Providers
Theory, knowledge, strategies, and skills of person-centered counselling including family systems, trauma theory, theory, grief counselling, motivational interviewing skills, self-awareness and mindfulness, interprofessional communication, and cultural competency in continuity of care.
MIDW 104 - Lactation Consultation for Maternity Care Providers
Breastfeeding physiology, pathophysiology, and strategies for support of the dyad based on best-practice principles.  Discussion of major Canadian and international initiatives for the support and protection of breastfeeding.
MIDW 103 - Applied Health Services for Maternity Providers
Introduction to diagnostics related to cellular and humoral immune responses in pregnant women and newborns, the properties of viruses, epidemiology, the principles of bacterial pathogenesis, and related physiologic responses.
MIDW 125 - Pharmacology for Maternity Care Providers
An overview of basic concepts in pharmacology, pharmacy, and therapeutics relevant to the practice of midwifery in Canada.
MIDW 210 - Evidence-Informed Midwifery
Principles of evidence-informed midwifery, what counts as evidence? Making sense of the evidence, applying the evidence in practice.
MIDW 215 - Ethics in Maternity Care
Ethics using ethical theory in health care and midwifery.
MIDW 305 - Midwifery Theory for Variations in Primary Care
Theoretical principles of care for pregnancy, birth, and the puerperium with an emphasis on the recognition and management of variations of normal and findings outside of normal.  Consists of a one-week intensive time in Vancouver, during which emergency skills certification is acquired, and weekly web-based tutorials.
MIDW 310 - Senior Research Project
An original piece of scholarship that builds on knowledge and skills acquired from coursework and in consultation with faculty mentors. This self-directed course can be taken in year 1, 2, or 3 of the Program.
MIDW 320 - Variations in Midwifery Clinical Care
Clinical education experiences with the preventative and therapeutic midwifery care of pregnancy, birth, and the puerperium.  Emphasis on the recognition and management of variations of normal and findings outside normal.  A 12-week practicum in locations around the province.
MIDW 325 - Professional Issues in Midwifery
Professional issues in midwifery including responsibilities and conduct, self-care, peer review, interprofessional relations and communication, legal and business concepts, and continuous quality assurance and improvement in practice.  A series of lectures and workshops delivered in an intensive format over two weeks.
MIDW 350 - Interprofessional Placement
Opportunities to explore health professions that partner with midwives to care for the childbearing family within the province.
MIDW 405 - Advanced Topics in Midwifery Theory and Practice
Theoretical principles for midwifery care of pregnancy, labour, birth, newborns, and the puerperium.  Emphasis on assessment and management skills for abnormal situations.  Includes a five-day intensive session in Vancouver, a series of online tutorials, and lab practice.
MIDW 420 - Advanced Midwifery Clinical Care
Clinical education for midwifery care of pregnancy, birth, and the puerperium with an empahsis on abnormal situations in pregnancy, labour and birth, and in newborns.  Clinical practicum around the province.
MIDW 440 - Clinical Clerkship
Students assume a primary care role in clinical placements in midwifery practices across the provinces.  Demonstration of independent decision making and application of the full range of their academic knowledge to professional practice.  A practicum under the supervision of a registered midwife.
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
UBC stories
UBC Midwifery is distinct in offering only a select number of seats. I think there is something to be said for our small group of just 20 midwives, versus being a larger group as you find at other universities. We knew each other’s children’s names, and we attended each other’s births. I also felt that I was known by name by my profs, and I really needed them at times when life got in the way of being a student and clerk; they rose to the occasion to support me.
Sarah-Jane Steele, Bachelor of Midwifery
Read the full story
Related programs
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Programs spotlight: Health and life sciences
Read admissions blog post
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC