Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/mining-engineering/

Mining Engineering
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Mining engineers focus on finding ways to extract minerals or metals from the earth. Their expertise in mining, mineral processing, and mine waste management is highly sought after around the world, wherever mines are located. UBC’s Mining Engineering program integrates courses on engineering principles, earth sciences, and mining and mineral processing with content covering health, safety, management, economics, and environmental and social issues.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Applied Science (Engineering)
Degree:
Bachelor of Applied Science (Engineering)
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Mining Engineering is concerned with the extraction and processing of ores containing valuable minerals or metals. To become a mining engineer, you need a thorough knowledge of general engineering principles, followed by the study of courses specific to mining and mineral processing. These courses are designed to cover a wide and diverse range of subjects in order to meet the challenges faced by the global mining industry. The program’s cross-disciplinary approach to mining is aimed at reducing the environmental impact of mining operations, improving the social impacts of mining,
and
increasing
the efficiency of aspects of
mineral extraction
such as energy and water usage
.
Campus features
UBC Coal & Mineral Processing Laboratory is fully equipped for teaching and research. The Department of Mining Engineering at UBC has made a commitment to foster responsible mining practices, and to produce mining engineers able to meet the complex challenges of sustainable approaches.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
APSC 100 - Introduction to Engineering I
An introduction to the engineering profession including: roles and responsibilities of the engineer, the engineering disciplines, sustainability, an introduction to the engineering design process, introduction and application of the relevant foundational scientific principles, prototyping, engineering graphics, technical communication, and engineering ethics.
CHEM 154 - Chemistry for Engineering
Chemical bonding, properties of matter. Chemical thermodynamics with applications to phase equilibria, aqueous equilibria and electrochemistry. Processes at surfaces.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
PHYS 157 - Introductory Physics for Engineers I
Heat, thermodynamics, oscillations, waves, and sound.
PHYS 170 - Mechanics I
Statics of particles, equilibrium or rigid bodies, rigid body statics and internal forces, trusses; kinematics: rectilinear motion; dynamics:  Newton's second law, friction, impulse, momentum, work and energy.
APSC 201 - Technical Communication
Written and oral communication in engineering. Report preparation, business correspondence, and oral presentation of technical material.
CIVL 210 - Soil Mechanics I
Soil classification, principle of effective stress, analysis of seepage, filter criteria, introduction to shear strength and slope stability analysis.
EOSC 210 - Earth Science for Engineers
Focus on the interaction between society and the geologic environment.  Locating, assessing and developing natural resources; understanding and preparing for natural hazards, design of structures and waste disposal sites.  For applied science and forestry students only.
MINE 224 - Mineralogy for Mining Engineering
Fundamentals of the main techniques used by the industry to characterize raw materials and troubleshoot processing plants.
MINE 291 - Introduction to Mining
Leading practices and technologies employed in the design, planning, and operation of mining systems. Life cycle of surface and underground mining systems.
APSC 278 - Engineering Materials
Atomic bonding; crystal structures and imperfections; properties of metals, ceramics, polymers, wood, concrete and fibre composite materials; selection of materials; corrosion; mechanical testing and heat treatment.
MINE 302 - Underground Mining and Design
Selection, design and development of underground mining methods based upon physical, geological, economical and environmental constraints. Underground materials handling (ore, waste, slurry, water) with equipment selection, production requirements, performance and costs.
MINE 304 - Rock Fragmentation
Theory and practice of rock fragmentation by drilling and blasting; introduction to explosives and initiation systems; design of surface and underground blasts; machine excavation systems for tunneling and stoping; environmental impacts, safety, and risk assessment.
MINE 331 - Physical Mineral Processes
Mineral processing unit operations and sampling, crushing, grinding, screening, classification, gravity separation, magnetic separation, electrostatic separation, concentrate dewatering practices.
MINE 333 - Flotation
Theory and technology of flotation and ancillary processes.
APSC 450 - Professional Engineering Practice
Legislation affecting the practice of engineering; ethical principles and responsibilities. Management of engineering enterprises; labour relations, safety and environmental legislation. Restricted to engineering undergraduate students in the final year of their program.
ELEC 344 - Applied Electronics and Electromechanics
Characteristics of semiconductor devices; analog circuits; force and torque production; motor principles and torque-speed characteristics; principles of power electronics. Not open to students in Electrical and Computer Engineering.
MINE 404 - Mine Management
Human relations in an organization; types of organizations; personnel evaluations and job rating systems; impact of manpower planning on decision-making; union negotiations; public relations; dealing with the media; corporate responsibilities to society and employees.
MINE 480 - Mine Waste Management
Basic geotechnical, hydrological, and water management aspects of mine waste management.
MINE 486 - Mining and The Environment
Environmental topics of importance to engineers practicing within the mining, metallurgical and related industries including technical practices, regulatory and public issues.
Your future
Your career opportunities will vary widely across a range of fields including mineral exploration, mine design and management, banking and venture capital, mining equipment and manufacturing, mineral and metal production and processing, environmental consulting, energy and utilities, technical sales and support, and others.
Careers with Mining Engineering
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Applied Science (Engineering)
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
IB Chemistry
IB Physics
Academically strong candidates missing either IB Chemistry or IB Physics may be evaluated on a case-by-case basis
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Joseph: An Engineering student who found out that UBC was about more than just education
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC