Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/modern-european-studies/

Modern European Studies
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Study European languages, history, art, music, literature, philosophy, geography, sociology, anthropology, politics, and economics in a broadly based concentration that will extend and deepen your knowledge of European issues.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Numerous factors are contributing to the increasing prominence of and interest in Europe in the world today. Among them are the political and economic growth of the European Union, the emergence of new states, and at times, the turbulent process of readjustment of the economic and political systems of post-communist countries, such as Russia.
Modern European Studies is an interdepartmental program. It offers you the opportunity to combine European languages, history, art, music, literature, philosophy, geography, sociology, anthropology, politics, and economics in a broadly based concentration that will extend and deepen your knowledge of European issues.
Campus features
UBC has exchange agreements with universities in Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
ENGL 110 - Approaches to Literature
Study of selected examples of poetry, fiction, and drama. Essays are required.
FREN 122 - Contemporary French Language and Literature I
A review of French grammar and an introduction to contemporary literature written in French, with emphasis on essay writing and textual analysis.
GERM 100 - Beginners' German I
Introduction to the language.  Ability to communicate accurately in a variety of everyday situations.  See also GERM 433.
HIST 105 - Contemporary Global Issues in Historical Perspective
Places issues and problems of current relevance such as disease, terrorism, drugs, or ethnic conflict in historical perspective. Each section will explore a single theme. Check with department for course offerings.
HIST 220 - History of Europe
Selected themes and historical approaches in European history; may include Europe's history of religious conflict, state formation, colonialism, nationalism, industrialization, revolution, total war, globalization, genocide, or environmental change.
CENS 201 - Contrasts and Conflicts: The Cultures of Central, Eastern and Northern Europe (in English)
An introduction to the cultural history of the peoples of Central, Eastern and Northern Europe as reflected in their literature, art and music.
CENS 202 - Great Works of Literature from Central, Eastern and Northern Europe (in English)
Major works of Central, Eastern and Northern European literature from the eighteenth century to the present in their European context.
RUSS 200 - Second-Year Russian
Intermediate oral practice, grammar, reading, composition. A special section may be provided for Science students.
ITST 232 - Introduction to Italian Culture II: From the Modern to the Post-Colonial Age
HIST 369 - Europe, 1900-1950
Europe in the first half of the twentieth century. Themes include the imperialist system, two world wars and their aftermaths, political and social movements of the interwar years, the Depression, and the crisis of liberal democracy. Credit will only be granted for one of HIST 369 or 462.
ECON 312 - Political Economy of Capitalism
An intellectual history of the evolution of the capitalist system and its institutions; a selection of defences and criticisms of capitalism and its alternatives in the writings of leading social and political philosophers from the 18th to the 20th centuries.
GEOG 391 - Modern Europe: Places and Borders
An introductory survey, focusing on the present-day human geography of the area between the Atlantic and the Ural Mountains.
PHIL 314 - Philosophy in the 17th Century
Survey of 17th-century philosophy from Bacon to Leibniz, including the writings of Hobbes, Descartes, and Spinoza. The influence of science and religion on philosophical thought.
GERM 403 - Studies in Modern German Culture (in English)
Topics of special interest, varying from year to year.
SCAN 411 - Scandinavian Drama and Film in Translation
Traces the explosive development of a provincial theatre into one of the seminal forces of twentieth-century drama and film. Emphasis on Ibsen, Strindberg, and Bergman.
CENS 404 - Gender and Nation: Women's State in Modern Central, Eastern and Northern European Literatures and Cultures
Cultural and social discourses of gender in literary works written in Central, Eastern and Northern Europe roughly between 1850 - 1930.
RUSS 412 - Dostoevsky in Translation
Your future
Your career opportunities will vary widely across a range of fields including government, foreign service, business, non-profit, translation, journalism, tourism, education, and others.
Careers with Modern European Studies
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Georgia: Studying abroad is making her a stronger global citizen
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC