Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/museum-studies/

Museum Studies
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Learn about the history of museum collecting, debate the public role of museums, address questions of ownership and repatriation of collections, and explore the complex relationship between museums and the individuals and communities that originally created the objects. This focus offers you training in museum principles and methods while also providing exciting opportunities to explore human society in all of its dimensions.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Although there is no stand-alone Major in Museum Studies, students who wish to explore the ever-evolving techniques of artifact documentation, conservation and display (including new multi-media applications) of objects, and the complex context of museum collection may choose a specialization in Anthropology and tailor their course selection to include a focus in Museum and Visual Anthropology.
As part of their studies, students interested in focusing in Museum and Visual Anthropology learn about the history of museum collecting, debate the public role of museums, address questions of ownership and repatriation of collections, and explore the complex relationship between museums and the individuals and communities that originally created the objects.
This focus – housed within a Major, Honours or Minor in Anthropology – offers students training in museum principles and methods while also providing them with exciting opportunities to explore human society in all of its dimensions through the innovative research and teaching of the Department of Anthropology.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
ASIA 101 - Introduction to Modern Asia
A survey of the emergence of modern Asia. Aims at an understanding of how the various peoples of Asia have maintained distinctive cultural identities despite centuries of political, economic, social and cultural change.
ARTH 101 - Ways of Seeing: Introduction to Visual Studies
Drawing on examples from across history and around the world, this course deals with the role of the visual in society, culture, and everyday experience.
HIST 107 - Global Indigenous Histories
An introduction to the experiences of Indigenous peoples and the nature of colonialisms around the world since 1500, and an introduction to historical practices and perspectives.
ARTH 102 - Crisis and Contradiction in Art and the Built Environment
Concepts and issues critical to the understanding of art and its histories in a global context.
ANTH 241 - Introduction to Museums and Museology
The critical study of anthropology museums as social institutions and material culture research and classification from the late 19th century to the present day.
ANTH 221 - Contemporary Indigenous Cultural Expressions
Forms and styles of indigenous expressive arts, and their current place in the lives of Indigenous Peoples.
ARTH 227 - Art and the Visual Environment in the Modern and Post-modern Periods
A selective survey of visual art, architecture and other visual media since 1900.
ARTH 226 - Art in an Era of Global Expansion
A selective survey of painting, sculpture, and architecture from the 16th century to the emergence of the modern era.
ANTH 341 - Museums, Heritage and Memory
Museums, galleries, monuments, and other cultural institutions' relations to our perception of history and geography.
ANTH 331 - Art, Aesthetics and Anthropology
Anthropological perspectives on art, aesthetics, and expressive culture.
ANTH 378 - Anthropology of Media
Analysis of contemporary mass media and of the anthropological use of media (photography, film, digital audio and video, etc.).
ARTH 345 - History of Photography: Archive, Spectacle, Reality
History and theory of photography, from the competitive context of invention in the 1830s to contemporary uses in social media.
ANTH 431 - Museum Practice and Curatorship
Management of museum collections and their public presentation, addressing questions of access, collaboration, and cultural property. The public interpretation of anthropological concepts and materials utilizing the programs and facilities of the Museum of Anthropology.
ANTH 451 - Conservation of Organic Materials
Conservation of organic materials within a museum environment; the nature of materials, mechanisms of deterioration and principles of preventive conservation. Recommended for students intending to work with cultural materials.
ANTH 452 - Conservation of Inorganic Materials
Conservation of inorganic materials within a museum environment; the nature of materials, mechanisms of deterioration and principles of preventive conservation. Recommended for students intending to work with cultural materials.
ANTH 478 - Ethnographic Film Methods
Ethnographic digital video production, including methods of ethnographic fieldwork, creation of field notes, and research design; basics of digital video planning, production, and editing. Production fees are charged for this course.
CNRS 410 - The Archaeology of Ancient Cyprus
An overview of the archaeology of ancient Cyprus from the island's initial colonization in the 10th millennium BCE through the period of its rule as part of the Roman Empire (4th century CE).
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Dr. Richards: A UBC professor and archaeologist
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC