Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/music/

Music
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Music is a rich, diverse, and universal art that is profoundly rewarding to study and to perform. Prepare for music-related careers in elementary education, broadcasting and journalism, music therapy, and business by integrating the study of music into a broad academic education in the humanities.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Students wishing to study Music as one of the liberal arts, or who don’t meet the special admissions requirements of the School of Music may pursue a Bachelor of Arts degree with a Major, Minor, or Honours in Music. Core music courses are similar to the Bachelor of Music degree, but without individual instrumental or vocal instruction.
Campus features
UBC facilities for Music include the Gessler Multimedia Teaching Studio and the Chan Centre for the Performing Arts, recently named one of the world’s greatest concert halls.
Chan Centre for the Performing Arts
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
MUSC 100 - Principles of Musical Form
Fundamental materials and processes of music - rhythmic, melodic, textural and harmonic - and how they create small-scale structures in a variety of styles. Compositional and analytical applications.
MUSC 101 - Diatonic Harmony and Voice Leading
Harmonic and linear functions of diatonic chords; common progressions and sequences; introduction to tonal hierarchy and prolongation; simple modulation. Compositional and analytical exercises.
MUSC 110 - Intensive Tonal Theory and Form I
Continuity and form in tonal music, with attention to the development of aural imagery and writing skills. Foundational concepts are first applied cross-historically, then restricted to styles in which functional harmony emerges as a governing feature.  Limited to B.Mus. students with strong preparation (as determined by B.Mus. admissions procedures) and students in other programs with permission of the instructor.
MUSC 111 - Intensive Tonal Theory and Form II
Two- and three-voice writing based on a four-part foundation; use of motivic diminution and imitation; dissonant chords; prolonging harmonies within phrases; modulating phrases and sequences; chromatic techniques; small binary and ternary forms, and formal functions of component phrases.
MUSC 200 - Chromatic Harmony and Voice Leading
Harmonic and linear functions of common chromatic chords; mixture; chords and progressions of linear origin; tonal plans. Compositional and analytical exercises.
MUSC 201 - Musical Forms
Study of various forms in tonal music and the rhythmic, melodic, textural, and harmonic processes that create them on small and large scales. Compositional and analytical exercises.
MUSC 210 - Intensive Tonal Theory and Form III
Writing exercises involving chromaticism and modulation. Theme and inter-theme types in Classical and Romantic music.  Techniques of variation and development.  Model-based composition of small forms and analysis of larger forms. Cultivation of score-reading ability.
HIST 220 - History of Europe
Selected themes and historical approaches in European history; may include Europe's history of religious conflict, state formation, colonialism, nationalism, industrialization, revolution, total war, globalization, genocide, or environmental change.
MUSC 319 - Introduction to Electroacoustic Music
Study of acoustics, audio technology, and electroacoustic composition. Composition of original works using facilities of the UBC Electroacoustic Music Studio.
MUSC 320 - Computer Music
The study of computer applications to music, focusing on digital synthesis techniques and languages, methods of algorithmic composition, and the design of music editors.
MUSC 300 - Compositional and Analytical Approaches to Post-Tonal Music
Concepts essential to understanding and performing art music, since 1900, in which functional triadic harmony is absent or subsidiary to other musical processes. Detailed consideration of works of major composers up to the present, through analysis, composition, and musicianship exercises.
MUSC 301 - Compositional and Analytical Approaches to Music Today
Technical and stylistic perspectives on contemporary art music and popular and world music idioms. Exercises in composition and production. Training in related listening, sight-singing and score reading skills.
MUSC 323 - History of Popular Music
Genres of popular music from 1950 to the present and their changing aesthetic, social, cultural, and historical dimensions. Prior experience with music notation and terminology is not required. This course is not acceptable for credit toward the B.Mus., or toward the B.A. major, honours, or minor in Music.
MUSC 403 - Selected Topics in Music
See School of Music schedule for description and prerequisites. Restricted to B. Mus. and B.A. in Music students.
MUSC 409 - Jazz Theory and Arranging
Jazz scales, chord relationships, substitutions, orchestration, listening, and score analysis. Restricted to B.Mus. and B.A. in Music students.
MUSC 411 - Analysis of Tonal Music
Analytical approaches that complement Schenkerian analysis, including motivic construction, harmonic rhythm and phrase rhythm, chromaticism and enharmonicism, features of musical form, aspects of structure and hierarchy at the small and large scale.
MUSC 413 - Contemporary Art Music: Theory and Analysis
A technical approach to the diverse concert-music repertoire since 1950, including orchestral, chamber, solo, and electro-acoustic genres. Applicable theories of pitch and rhythm, with reference to composers' own writings.
MUSC 428 - Topics in World Music
The history, theory, style, organology, and forms of the music of a particular culture in its aesthetic and cultural context. Students should consult the School as to which music culture will be covered in a particular year. May be repeated once for credit if different cultures are covered.
Your future
Your career opportunities will vary widely across a range of fields including music performance, composition, conducting, production, distribution, education, festivals, film, television, video games, advertising, arts administration, and others.
Career opportunities vary widely across a range of fields including music performance, composition, conducting, production, distribution, education, festivals, film, television, video games, advertising, arts administration, and others, including:
Conductor
Instrumentalist
Accompanist
Archivist
Art director
Arts and culture association chairperson
Journalist
Composer
Careers with music
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life on Snapchat
Read admissions blog post
Meet the UBC Laptop Orchestra, an interdisciplinary team of undergraduate students making music
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC