Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/nutritional-sciences/

Nutritional Sciences
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Build a strong foundation in basic and applied human nutrition as you delve into a broad range of topics, from community nutrition to how our bodies actually metabolize and use nutrients. You’ll explore rich opportunities to integrate nutrition with your interests in other areas within the fields of health and science, such as population and public health, and international nutrition.
Why this program?
Study in the only science-based nutrition program in B.C.
Integrate nutrition with your interests in other areas of study.
Gain a strong foundation in basic and applied human nutrition, including the metabolism of nutrients and community nutrition.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Degree:
Bachelor of Science in Food, Nutrition, and Health
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
In Nutritional Sciences, you’ll delve into the human and animal digestive systems, the function of nutrients in health and disease, nutritional requirements and recommendations, and the effects of production and distribution systems on food availability.
The program will equip you to continue your education at the master’s and doctoral levels, or to pursue a career in nutrition or health research, or in research and development-related industries. Graduates can also further their studies in the health professions and veterinary sciences.
Experiential learning and research
You can enhance your classroom learning with real-world experience through directed studies and co-op placements. You’ll also participate in community-engaged learning focused on relevant and current topics in the nutritional sciences, which will strengthen your capacities for scientific writing and oral presentations, among other skills.
Send details
Why this program?
Study in the only science-based nutrition program in B.C.
Integrate nutrition with your interests in other areas of study.
Gain a strong foundation in basic and applied human nutrition, including the metabolism of nutrients and community nutrition.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
LFS 100 - Introduction to Land, Food and Community
Orientation to the programs, learning environment and core values of the Faculty of Land and Food Systems; career programs; survey of professional opportunities and requirements.
LFS 150 - Scholarly Writing and Argumentation in Land and Food Systems
Communicating concepts of food systems and links to human and environmental health through writing, elements of argumentation, evaluating evidence, and searching for and citing references to back up claims; small-class experience. Enrolment limited to LFS students with first year status.
FNH 160 - Introductory Physiology for Human Nutrition I
Basic principles in human physiology, including function of the nervous, endocrine, musculoskeletal and digestive systems, integration across systems, maintenance of homeostasis, and application to human nutrition.
CHEM 121 - Structure and Bonding in Chemistry
Fundamentals of bonding theories and structural chemistry, with applications relevant to modern society.
PHYS 131 - Energy and Waves (Lecture)
Fluids, harmonic oscillator, travelling waves, standing waves, sound, and interference of light waves, including diffraction.
LFS 250 - Land, Food and Community I: Introduction to Food Systems and Sustainability
Managed systems and concepts of sustainability; economic, ecological and social components; managed landscapes, agri-food systems, and communities; urban and rural systems; the land, food, nutrition and human health continuum.
FNH 200 - Exploring Our Food
Chemical and physical properties of foods; issues pertaining to safety, nutritive value and consumer acceptability; government regulations pertaining to food safety, quality and additives; preservation techniques and transformation of agricultural commodities to food products; foods of the future.
FNH 250 - Nutrition Concepts and Controversies
Fundamental concepts and principles of human nutrition applied to current nutrition issues.
BIOL 201 - Introduction to Biochemistry
Biological molecules, protein structure and enzyme action, energy transfer, central metabolic pathways and their regulation. Examples drawn from plants, animals and microorganisms. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section of the Calendar.)
CHEM 233 - Organic Chemistry for the Biological Sciences
Reactions and properties of carbonyl compounds, carbohydrates, amino acids, nucleic acids.
FNH 350 - Fundamentals of Nutrition
Fundamentals of energy and macronutrient metabolism.
FNH 351 - Vitamins, Minerals, and Health
Vitamin and mineral nutrition and their role in maintaining and promoting health.
FNH 370 - Nutrition Assessment
The use of dietary, anthropometric, biochemical, and related information for the assessment of nutritional status of individuals and populations.
FNH 371 - Human Nutrition Over The Life Span
Nutritional requirements and dietary patterns of healthy individuals throughout the life span. 3-0-0
LFS 350 - Land, Food, and Community II: Principles and Practice of Community Food Security
Project-based application of the principles and processes of community food security. Emphasis on developing skills required to address economic, ecological, social, and technological components of managed landscapes, agri-food systems, and communities comprising the land, food, nutrition and health continuum.
FNH 451 - Nutrient Metabolism and Implications for Health
Integration of nutrient and energy metabolism on a whole-body and individual tissue basis and the implication for health. Emphasis will be on regulation of nutrient metabolism.
FNH 477 - Nutrition and Disease Prevention
Evidence-based examination of the role of nutrition in the prevention of chronic disease.
SPPH 410 - Improving Public Health
This Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) course promotes collaborating interprofessionally. Each student team will identify and research a critical public health issue, and develop a detailed practical and effective intervention. Intended for students in health and human service programs.
FNH 474 - Sports Nutrition
Nutritional needs of athletes, including energy, carbohydrate and protein; hydration; pre-and post-event nutrition, weight management and body composition issues; ergogenic aids; sports-specific guidelines; and special athlete populations.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
Your future
Many graduates of the Nutritional Sciences program go on to careers in the fields of population and public health nutrition, health promotion, and the health sciences. Opportunities include positions in naturopathy, fitness, food service, publishing, pharmaceuticals, medicine, nursing, rehabilitation sciences, and veterinary medicine.
Program graduates
Nutrition educator
Pharmaceutical sales representative
Entrepreneur
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Food, Nutrition, and Health
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry, and
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Social Studies
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Meet Chandni, a Nepalese student who worked on a micro-nutrient project in Rwanda
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC