Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/oceanography/

Oceanography
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Oceanography is the study of our oceans, including their circulation, physical and chemical properties, and life. Physical, biological, and chemical oceanographers often work together in this richly interdisciplinary science to better understand how the ocean works, affects global climate, and impacts communities. You could tackle challenges of safe shipping, sustainable food supply, sanitary sewage disposal, and healthy recreation.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Oceanographers study the physical and chemical properties of ocean water, the life within it, the sea floor, and the ocean’s connection to the rest of the planet. Oceanography draws from biology, physics, chemistry, and geology, making it a truly multidisciplinary science. Oceanographers work in diverse areas, including biological oceanography; the physics of waves, tides, and currents; the creation, evolution, and structure of sea floors; and chemical oceanography. They work to understand how the ocean works and tackle challenges related to global climate change and its impacts on ocean communities, safe shipping, and sustainable food supplies.
Oceanography is offered at the undergraduate level through the Honours in Fisheries Oceanography program, which is intended for students wishing to pursue graduate studies in the field or work as consultants in fisheries/environmental management. Oceanography can also be paired with another science subject as a Combined Major or Combined Honours degree, including Biology, Chemistry, Geology, Geophysics, Microbiology and Immunology, or Physics. The Combined Honours programs are generally geared towards students intending to pursue graduate work in oceanography and involve an upper-level field course in which students develop and carry out their own research program.
Campus features
UBC is home to the Institute for the Oceans and Fisheries, as well as the Marine Mammal Research Unit (MMRU), Project Seahorse, and the Pacific Centre for Isotopic and Geochemical Research (PCIGR). Ocean Dynamics Laboratory conducts oceanographic research. Current topics include the nearby ocean, arctic hydrography, and lakes of British Columbia.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
CHEM 121 - Structure and Bonding in Chemistry
Fundamentals of bonding theories and structural chemistry, with applications relevant to modern society.
CHEM 123 - Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Organic Chemistry
Fundamentals of chemical reactivity: thermodynamics; kinetics; organic chemistry, including stereochemistry; applications relevant to modern society.
EOSC 112 - The Fluid Earth: Atmosphere and Ocean
Introduction to processes in ocean and atmosphere. Heat, current, winds, clouds, marine life, resources. Effects of coupling, climate change, pollution. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list, within the Faculty of Science section in the Calendar.)
BIOL 112 - Biology of the Cell
The principles of cellular and molecular biology using bacterial and eukaryotic examples.
BIOL 140 - Laboratory Investigations in Life Science
Guided experimental investigations of biological questions.
BIOL 203 - Eukaryotic Microbiology
Introduction to the origin and diversity of protists (protozoa and algae) at both cellular and genomic levels, including the role of endosymbiosis in evolution.
EOSC 211 - Computer Methods in Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences
Mathematical computer-based problem solving in the physical, chemical, and biological sciences. Problems drawn from studies of the earth, the oceans and the atmosphere.
EOSC 270 - Marine Ecosystems
Introduction to diversity of marine habitats and ecosystems; hydrothermal vent, intertidal, coral reef, estuarine, deep sea, and polar ecosystems; impacts of ecosystem change; evolution of ocean plankton; invasive species; climate change; pollution.
CHEM 233 - Organic Chemistry for the Biological Sciences
Reactions and properties of carbonyl compounds, carbohydrates, amino acids, nucleic acids.
BIOL 300 - Fundamentals of Biostatistics
Statistical procedures for biological research; estimation, hypothesis testing, goodness of fit, analysis of variance and regression; use of computers for statistical analysis. Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
BIOL 336 - Fundamentals of Evolutionary Biology
Natural selection; population genetics, quantitative genetics and systematics; classical and molecular approaches to the study of evolution.
BIOL 351 - Plant Physiology I
Mechanisms and regulation of functional processes contributing to the assimilation, transport and utilization of water, mineral nutrients and carbon by plants. Restricted to Majors and Honours students in Biology.
EOSC 372 - Introductory Oceanography: Circulation and Plankton
Physical and chemical processes and their controls on the distribution of plankton in the ocean.
EOSC 373 - Introductory Oceanography: Climate and Ecosystems
Physical, chemical, and biological processes in the ocean and their interaction with climate and marine food-webs.
BIOL 402 - Aquatic Ecology
Theoretical and applied limnology; ecology of inland water organisms in relation to physical, chemical and biological factors. One weekend field trip required.
EOSC 470 - Biological Oceanography
A quantitative examination of processes regulating the abundance, distribution and production of phytoplankton, zooplankton, microbes and fish. Controls of primary and secondary production, ecosystem dynamics and foodwebs.
EOSC 478 - Introduction to Fisheries Science
An introduction to the ecology and management of freshwater and marine fisheries. Topics include: population dynamics, species interactions, communities, environmental influences, stock assessment, economics and sociology of fisheries. Laboratories will consist of numerical analyses and simulations.
EOSC 448 - c Directed Studies
Investigation of a topic to be agreed upon by a member of the faculty and the student. Permission of an undergraduate advisor and of the supervising faculty member is required before registration.
EOSC 473 - Methods in Oceanography
Methods of data acquisition, study and analysis required in solving oceanographic problems. Includes a field school held during the mid-term break. A fee is to be paid by January 31. Open to third- and fourth-year students in Oceanography, or with permission of the Department Head.
Follow this program
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Earth Sciences Building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Built in 2012 to LEED Gold construction standards, the Earth Sciences building is home to the Department of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences. It houses the department’s cluster computers for numerical weather and climate simulations, weather-instrument platform for research and teaching, modern labs for oceanographic research, wet labs, and two computer lab classrooms for undergraduate student use.
Find out more
Your future
A BSc in Oceanography will equip you with laboratory experience, computer skills, and an in-depth knowledge of the oceanic environment. Graduates are qualified for work in a wide range of jobs in environmental organizations affecting policy, commerce, and education.
The Honours in Fisheries Oceanography and Combined Honours prepare you for additional graduate studies in a wide range of oceanography subfields.
Program graduates
Oceanographer researcher, RBR Ltd.
Ecological monitoring technical, Parks Canada
PhD candidate in fishery ecology, UBC Institute for Oceans and Fisheries
Research marine biologist and biological consultant, Fisheries and Oceans Canada
Species-at-risk biologist, Bedford Institute of Oceanography
Research associate, University of Washington School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry, and
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Cecilia, an Environmental Science and Human Geography student from Peru
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC