Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/pharmacy/

Pharmacy
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Visit program website
Pharmacists have specialized knowledge of medicines, ranging from their discovery, chemistry, synthesis, and manufacture to how they work in the body, how they can improve or cure disease, and how to determine if they are working well for a patient. Upon graduation, you'll be able to choose from a wide range of career opportunities working as an integral member of health-care teams.
Why this program?
UBC is one of the world’s Top 30 pharmacy schools, and the only one in British Columbia.
Innovative modular curriculum with integrated activities, practicums, and inter-professional learning opportunities.
Award-winning learning and research facility.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Degree:
Doctor of Pharmacy
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
No
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Pharmacy practice involves the understanding of medications, their uses and interactions, and patient-centred care. Students admitted to the Entry-to-Practice Doctor of Pharmacy program will learn about pharmacy practice, therapeutics, pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, pathophysiology, pharmacy management, drug safety, and the Canadian health-care system in classroom and practice-lab settings.
You can apply for admission into Pharmacy after a minimum of two years, or 60 undergraduate credits, including specific course requirements. The program satisfies the requirements of the College of Pharmacists of BC for academic qualification for licensing in the Province of British Columbia. Entry is restricted to Canadian citizens and permanent residents.
Pharmacy admission requirements
Experiential learning and research
Students are required to complete 46 weeks of experiential learning, which includes practicum rotations in a variety of pharmacy practice settings across British Columbia.
Campus features
The Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences is home to the Pharmacists Clinic, Canada’s first university-affiliated, pharmacist-led patient care clinic that offers services to patients as well as teaching and learning space for students and pharmacists. Link:
The faculty is housed in a superb new state-of-the-art teaching and research facility.
Pharmacists Clinic
Pharmaceutical Sciences building
Inside UBC Pharm Sci blog
UBC Pharm Sci on YouTube
Send details
Why this program?
UBC is one of the world’s Top 30 pharmacy schools, and the only one in British Columbia.
Innovative modular curriculum with integrated activities, practicums, and inter-professional learning opportunities.
Award-winning learning and research facility.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
PHRM 100 - Foundations of Pharmacy
Scientific concepts and pharmacy practice principles. Role of the pharmacist, patient assessment skills, professional identity, communication skills, and an understanding of legal and ethical responsibilities.
PHRM 111 - Medication Management I
Modules and integration activities focusing on: an introduction to infectious diseases; musculoskeletal disorders; dermatology; eyes, ears, nose, and throat disorders; and hematology.
PHRM 131 - Study Design and Interpretation I
Principles of clinical study design, focusing on biostatistical foundations, randomized controlled trials, and systematic review of randomized controlled trials.
PHRM 161 - Technology in Healthcare
Knowledge and skills related to the role and applications of technology in health care.
PHRM 171 - Introductory Pharmacy Practice Experience - Outpatient I
Prescription processing, drug distribution systems, and select patient care activities in real world outpatient environments.
PHRM 211 - Medication Management II
Modules and integration activities focusing on respirology and cardiovascular disorders.
PHRM 212 - Medication Management III
Modules and integration activities focusing on nephrology, endocrinology, and neurology.
PHRM 221 - Nutrition for Pharmacists
Foundations of nutrition, nutrition for healthy individuals through the lifespan, and selected clinical applications of nutrition in pharmacy practice.
PHRM 251 - Institutional Practice Skills
Preparation for experiential learning in the hospital setting. Focuses on enhancing familiarity with the care environment and developing skills suited for students to apply to patient care during institutional experiential rotations.
PHRM 272 - Introductory Pharmacy Practice Experience - Inpatient
Prescription processing, drug distribution systems, and select patient care activities in real world inpatient environments. Focus on direct patient care activities.
PHRM 311 - Medication Management IV
Modules and integration activities focusing on psychiatry; gastroenterology disorders; and oncology and palliative care.
PHRM 312 - Medication Management V
Modules and integration activities focusing on special infectious diseases; obstetrics, gynecology, sexual health, and genito-urinary disorders; and toxicology.
PHRM 351 - Practice Management and Leadership
Application of management and leadership principles and skills to pharmacy operations.
PHRM 361 - Clinical Skills: Administration of Injections
Training for authorization to administer injections
PHRM 371 - Introductory Pharmacy Practice Experience - Outpatient III
Direct patient care activities in an outpatient setting. Building on existing pharmaceutical knowledge and problem solving ability. Increased involvement in diverse patient care situations.
PHRM 441 - Seminar: Advanced Topics in Pharmacy Practice
Roles and skills for pharmacists as preceptors, teachers and mentors; emerging issues in pharmacy practice.
PHRM 471 - Outpatient Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experience
Application of integrated problem-solving skills to resolve increasingly complex drug-therapy problems in outpatient settings. Patient care will be provided for a wide range of therapeutic areas.
PHRM 472 - Inpatient Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experience
Application of integrated problem-solving skills to resolve increasingly complex drug-therapy problems in inpatient settings. Patient care will be provided for a wide range of therapeutic areas.
PHRM 473 - Selected Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experience
Diverse options available in such domains as patient care (various settings), research, health policy, education, and others. The available placement options will vary from year to year depending on site/preceptor availability.
PHRM 481 - Healthcare Quality Improvement
Builds on the foundation of patient care and management learning with knowledge about healthcare system improvement. Focuses on principles of quality measurement and quality improvement in health.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Pharmaceutical Sciences Building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Study at one of the world’s top ranked schools for pharmacy and pharmaceutical 
sciences in our award-winning, state-of-the-art learning and research facility
Find out more
Your future
UBC’s Entry-to-Practice Doctor of Pharmacy program prepares students for a rewarding career in pharmacy practice, teaching, and research. As the pharmacist’s scope of practice continues to expand, so will the career opportunities. Pharmacy graduates find careers in community pharmacy, inpatient and outpatient care settings, public and regulatory bodies, pharmaceutical industry, research, and academia.
Program graduates
Medical information resident, Eli Lilly Canada Inc.
Associate owner, Shoppers Drug Mart
Medical science liaison – Respiratory, Glaxosmithkline
Clinical pharmacist, Surrey Memorial Hospital
View larger image
Related programs
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Vivian, a Science student and Schulich Leader Scholarship winner who chose UBC
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC