Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/pharmaceutical-sciences/

Pharmaceutical Sciences
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Study the sciences behind drug discovery and development, including pharmacology, formulations, nanomedicine, diagnostics, and analytical chemistry. You'll graduate ready for grad school or a technical position in pharmaceuticals, life sciences, or biotechnology.
Why this program?
Gain knowledge and practical skills to contribute to the discovery, development, and evaluation of drugs and therapies
Get the training you need to provide meaningful contributions to discussions among academic, industry, and government professionals
Pursue a career as a professional, entrepreneur, or emerging leader in pharmaceutical sciences
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Degree:
Bachelor of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
No
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
As a Pharmaceutical Sciences student at UBC, you’ll study foundational natural sciences and pharmaceutical sciences while developing your teamwork, leadership, and entrepreneurialism. You’ll graduate with the knowledge, practical skills, and problem-solving abilities you need to contribute to important economic, social, and political discussions.
Experiential learning and research
Within the Bachelor of Pharmaceutical Sciences degree, you’ll choose one of three streams:
General studies: Focus exclusively on coursework.
Research focus: Complete a research project or practicum in year 4.
Honours with research focus: Complete a research project or practicum in year 4, plus 12 additional credits of coursework.
Practicums
If your practicum application is successful, you’ll be placed with a government organization or an industrial partner (e.g., a biotech, drug, nutraceutical or personal care company) for one term.  You’ll gain hands-on experience, learn critical skills, and earn 15 credits toward your degree.
Research
If your research application is successful, you’ll work on a research project with a professor from the Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences for one term. You’ll learn critical research skills and earn 15 credits toward your degree.
Campus features
As a Pharmaceutical Sciences student, you’ll have access to
state-of-the-art laboratories
with high-end research equipment. You’ll also be trained in ultra-high-pressure liquid Chromatography (UHPLC) mass spectrometry, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, microparticle analysis, and microscopy.
Send details
Why this program?
Gain knowledge and practical skills to contribute to the discovery, development, and evaluation of drugs and therapies
Get the training you need to provide meaningful contributions to discussions among academic, industry, and government professionals
Pursue a career as a professional, entrepreneur, or emerging leader in pharmaceutical sciences
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
BIOL 155 - Human Biology: Physiology and Introductory Anatomy
The principles of biology with particular reference to the human body (anatomy and physiology).  (physiology and introductory anatomy). Please consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion Lists: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
CHEM 123 - Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Organic Chemistry
Fundamentals of chemical reactivity: thermodynamics; kinetics; organic chemistry, including stereochemistry; applications relevant to modern society.
WRDS 150 - Writing and Research in the Disciplines
Writing and reading in disciplines across the academy, focusing on practices that research disciplines share and those that differentiate them.
MATH 101 - Integral Calculus with Applications
The definite integral, integration techniques, applications, modelling, infinite series.
PHAR 180 - Pharmaceutical Topics and Communication Seminar I
Current topics in the Pharmaceutical Sciences and basic skills for a short presentation on a biological science topic.
PHAR 202 - Biochemical Pharmacology
Biochemical pharmacology including fundamental aspects of enzymology, biochemistry, enzyme kinetics, drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics.
PHAR 203 - Drug Delivery Technologies and Personalized Medicine Theory and Laboratory
Theoretical and practical knowledge of biopharmaceuticals, pharmaceutics, formulations, nanomedicine, and precision medicine as they apply to pharmaceutical sciences.
PHAR 204 - Pharmaceutical Research
Types of research scientists in Academia and Industry undertake across the broad range of Pharmaceutical Science Disciplines.
PHAR 205 - Clinical Epidemiology & Pharmaceutical Outcomes I
Population-level study designs and critical appraisal skills in evidence evaluation, with a special emphasis on evidence-based pharmacy practice.
PHAR 280 - Pharmaceutical Topics and Communication Seminar II
Current topics in the Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology Industry and intermediate level skills for a short presentation.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
View larger image
UBC Pharmaceutical Sciences Building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
UBC's Pharmaceutical Sciences degree is the only one of its kind in western Canada and the only one taught in English in all of Canada. It's also one of the few degree programs in the country where professional research equipment is placed in teaching laboratories for industry- and research-relevant learning.
Find out more
Your future
As a Pharmaceutical Sciences graduate, you can go on to graduate school and academia, or pursue a career in:
Government policy and regulatory affairs
Biotechnology
Healthcare administration and provision
Medical device sales and marketing
Pharmaceuticals, including generic medications
Nutraceuticals, dietary supplements, or cannabis products
Personal care products, including shampoo, lotion, and makeup
Veterinary drugs
Process manufacturing
Paint and other industrial formulation manufacturing
Quality assurance management
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Pharmaceutical Sciences
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
IB Chemistry
Grade 11 or equivalent Biology
Note: Grade 11 Biology requirement listed is only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Biology course.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Meet Suud, a Biochemistry student from a small community in Tanzania
Read full story
Ready to choose UBC?
Apply to UBC