Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/philosophy-politics-okanagan/

Philosophy, Politics, and Economics
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Explore three of the most important fields in shaping our understanding of society, Canadian public policy, and the world. You'll study a wide variety of foundational and advanced courses that prepare you for careers in business or government, to undertake studies in law, business, commerce, journalism, social work, education, or public administration.
Why this program?
Build the foundational skills needed to pursue a career in business, government, law, and commerce, or to pursue graduate studies in any of the fields of philosophy, politics, or economics.
Watch or participate as two debate teams face off on public issues before a panel of judges at the Roger Watts Debate.
Attend seminars with visiting speakers from prominent academic institutions, industry, and government.
Put your classroom learning to the test with co-op job placements throughout the region and beyond.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
A UBC degree in Philosophy, Politics, and Economics (PPE) draws together three of the most important fields in understanding our society and our world:
Philosophy, which teaches logic, ethics and how to question critically
Politics, which considers the interests and institutions that form public policies and the rules by which we are governed
Economics, which encompasses how we make decisions as individuals and groups in our increasingly global world market
Placed together, these fields allow you to form a critical and informed basis to understand and interpret the world.
Experiential learning and research
At UBC’s Okanagan campus, you’ll have the opportunity to participate in the annual Roger Watts Debates as part of a student team.
In your coursework, you have lots of research opportunities, especially in upper-level courses. You’ll have the option of two directed studies courses, where you will undertake a supervised investigation of an assigned topic, culminating in a major term paper.
The Irving K. Barber Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences also holds an annual Undergraduate Research Conference on UBC’s Okanagan campus to showcase student research projects. There are research award opportunities within the Irving K. Barber School of Arts and Sciences, as well as other merit-based cash awards available to you.
Roger Watts Advocacy Debates
Campus features
UBC is a global centre for research and teaching, consistently ranked among the 40 best universities in the world. UBC Okanagan is home to several renowned experts in political science working with students and community stakeholders on some truly exciting research and community events. This includes the annual Roger Watts Debates and a recent symposium on Nuclear North Korea that brought in leading experts to share their views on one of today’s most critical global issues.
Your Philosophy, Political Science, and Economics career options
Send details
Why this program?
Build the foundational skills needed to pursue a career in business, government, law, and commerce, or to pursue graduate studies in any of the fields of philosophy, politics, or economics.
Watch or participate as two debate teams face off on public issues before a panel of judges at the Roger Watts Debate.
Attend seminars with visiting speakers from prominent academic institutions, industry, and government.
Put your classroom learning to the test with co-op job placements throughout the region and beyond.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
ECON 101 - Principles of Microeconomics
Elements of theory and Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of markets and market behaviour, prices and costs, exchange and trade, competition and monopoly, distribution of income.
ECON 102 - Principles of Macroeconomics
Elements of theory and Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of growth and business cycles, national income accounting, interest and exchange rates, money and banking, the balance of trade.
PHIL 111 - Introduction to Philosophy I
Introduction to outstanding philosophers and their systems. Ethics, political philosophy, metaphysics, and philosophy of religion.
POLI 101 - The Government of Canada
Examination of the institutions and processes of Canadian government.
STAT 121 - Elementary Statistics
Descriptive and inferential statistics, elementary probability, probability distributions, estimation of parameters, hypotheses testing, correlation, linear regression. Cannot provide credit towards a B.Sc. degree. Good for CA, CMA credit.
PHIL 233 - Biomedical Ethics
Moral problems arising in the health sciences. Topics may include abortion, death and euthanasia, genetic engineering, behaviour modification, compulsory treatment, experimentation with human beings and animals, and/or the relationship between professionals and their patients, subjects, or clients.
PHIL 230 - Ethics
Theories of obligation and value; moral reasoning; normative ethics, descriptive ethics, and metaethics. Readings in classic and contemporary texts.
ECON 204 - Intermediate Microeconomic Analysis
Microtheory course at the post-principles level. Analysis of consumer behaviour, production, exchange, equilibrium of the firm under varying market structures, factor markets, economic efficiency, and welfare.
POLI 223 - Introduction to Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE)
The relationship of ethics, economics and politics to the advocacy, formulation, legislation and administration of public policy.
ECON 232 - History of Economic Thought
Evolution of economic thinking from ancient to present times. The Greek, Islamic, and Medieval scholars; the Physiocrats, Adam Smith, Malthus, Bentham, Ricardo, Mill, Marx, Keynes, and other major economic thinkers. Development of fundamental economic ideas and conflicting perspectives are studied within their social and economic context.
ECON 339 - Economics of Technological Change
Application of economic analysis to technological change; impact of technological change on the growth and distribution of income; economic influences on the invention and diffusion of technology; interaction between technology, work, skills, and education; public policy toward technological change.
ECON 370 - Benefit-Cost Analysis and the Economics of Project Evaluation
Techniques and problems in benefit-cost analysis of public projects. Examination of alternative approaches to public decision-making such as cost-effectiveness analysis and multiple-objective frameworks. Case studies of projects in the areas of natural resources, the environment, human resources, public services, and transportation.
PHIL 338 - Philosophy of Law
Concepts of law, constitution, and sovereignty; law and morality; natural law theories and legal positivism; obligation, responsibility, and punishment.
POLI 364 - International Organizations
Analysis of the activities and influence of modern international organizations in international security, economic, and social issue areas. Organizations associated with the United Nations; other world and regional bodies will also be analyzed.
POLI 382 - Genocide: An Interdisciplinary Perspective
Evolution of genocide. Strategies for intervention and prevention. Case studies. Genocide from the perspectives of psychology, sociology, anthropology, political science/international relations.
POLI 472 - War and the Modern State
Evolution of military conflict from 1789 to the present. Case studies illustrate development of modern states, progress of industrial and scientific innovation, implications of hyperbolic inter-state violence, and the limited war in the nuclear age.
PHIL 497 - Directed Studies for PPE Majors
Students will undertake a supervised investigation of an assigned topic in public policy. They will be expected to do a significant amount of independent reading and analysis and to produce a major term paper at the end of the course.
ECON 427 - Econometrics
Advanced treatment of estimation, inference, and econometric problems and techniques with focus on both theoretical and applied methods and with application to a variety of economic models.
PHIL 451 - Philosophy of Mind
The nature of the mental and physical; the relation between minds and bodies; the character of psychological explanation.
POLI 462 - International Relations Theory
Seminar on major theoretical approaches to the study of international relations. For specific content in a given year, consult the unit website.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
UBC's Okanagan campus
Life at UBC's Okanagan campus
UBC's Okanagan campus is renowned for its research opportunities and access to professors. On this tight-knit campus, you’ll be able to work closely with award-winning faculty and make meaningful connections with your peers. You can make friends with similar interests, attend events, and explore career options at one of many clubs and associations including UBCO Political Science Student Association, International Relations Student Association, and Economics Course Union.
Find out more
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving. Students intending to pursue graduate studies are advised to consider taking the Honours program.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Peter, a residence advisor and all-around fan of the Okanagan
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC