Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/physics-vancouver/

Physics
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Physicists study the material world and the energy that drives it, from the smallest particles like neutrinos and Higgs bosons, to the very largest structures in the universe, and ultimately the universe itself.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Why this program?
Study at one of the top physics departments in Canada with an outstanding international reputation.
Canada’s National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics, TRIUMF, is located at UBC.
Electives offer training for entrance into medicine, law, education, business, or architecture.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Physics, which deals with matter and energy and the interactions between the two, allows us to understand phenomena that take place around us and in the universe. Physical laws help us perceive our world. Some physicists use these principles in theoretical areas, such as the nature of time and the origin of the universe. Others apply their physics knowledge to the development of advanced materials, electronic and optical devices, and medical equipment.
Physics is available as a major or honours degree, with options for a combined honours in Physics and Astronomy, which is suggested if you wish to enter a career in research. Combined honours in Chemical Physics and Physics and Mathematics are also options. When combined with proper electives, the Physics specialization is suitable as pre-training for a professional degree in architecture, commerce, education, law, or medicine. The large number of electives will enable you to obtain significant background in another field, such as computer science, applied mathematics, physical geography, oceanography, geophysics, or geology. You may wish to select a double major, which can be obtained by satisfying the degree requirements in two subjects.
Campus features
UBC is home to Canada’s National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics, at the TRIUMF facility, a world-renowned accelerator for the study of sub-atomic science.
TRIUMF
Experiential learning and research
First-year Physics classes are taught using the flipped-classroom model to ensure that you receive individualized help, even in large, lower-level lectures. The Department of Physics and Astronomy has a strong outreach program that helps run events such as the UBC Physics Olympics, the Michael Smith Challenge, and the Canadian Physics Olympiad.
Send details
Why this program?
Study at one of the top physics departments in Canada with an outstanding international reputation.
Canada’s National Laboratory for Particle and Nuclear Physics, TRIUMF, is located at UBC.
Electives offer training for entrance into medicine, law, education, business, or architecture.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
CHEM 121 - Structure and Bonding in Chemistry
Fundamentals of bonding theories and structural chemistry, with applications relevant to modern society.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions. Applications and modeling: graphing, optimization. Consult the Faculty of Science Credit Exclusion List: www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
PHYS 117 - Dynamics and Waves
Kinematics including curvilinear motion. Forces and Newton's laws of motion. Work-energy theorem, conservation of energy. Conservation of momentum, collisions. Torque, rotational dynamics, angular momentum. Oscillations and waves. Please consult the Faculty of Science credit exclusion list: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
PHYS 118 - Electricity, Light and Radiation
Optics, electricity and magnetism, electric circuits, radioactivity, including biological applications. Please consult the Faculty of Science credit exclusion list: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
PHYS 119 - Experimental Physics Lab
Introductory laboratory course, with emphasis on data collection, data analysis techniques, and scientific reasoning. Please consult the Faculty of Science credit exclusion list: http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414.
MATH 221 - Matrix Algebra
Systems of linear equations, operations on matrices, determinants, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, diagonalization of symmetric matrices.
PHYS 200 - Relativity and Quanta
Special relativity: Lorentz transformation, dynamics and conservation laws. Quantum physics: the experimental evidence for quantization; a qualitative discussion of the concepts of quantum mechanics and their application to simple systems of atoms and nuclei.
PHYS 216 - Intermediate Mechanics
Review of kinematics, Newton's laws, angular momentum and fixed axis rotation. Rigid body motion, central forces, non-inertial frames of reference. Introduction to Lagrangian and Hamiltonian mechanics.
PHYS 219 - Intermediate Experimental Physics I
Analog electronics and amplifiers, digital electronics, analog-to-digital converters and an introduction to use of computers in data analysis and simulations.
PHYS 229 - Intermediate Experimental Physics II
Thermodynamics experiments, modern physics experiments and use of computers in data analysis.
MATH 317 - Calculus IV
Parametrizations, inverse and implicit functions, integrals with respect to length and area; grad, div, and curl, theorems of Green, Gauss, and Stokes.
PHYS 309 - Electrical Laboratory
Selected experiments in electromagnetism and electronics; computer data acquisition; advanced data analysis and simulation.
PHYS 312 - Introduction to Mathematical Physics
The application of ordinary and partial differential equations to physical problems; boundary and initial value problems associated with heat, wave and Laplace equations. Fourier analysis; expansions in Bessel and Legendre functions.
PHYS 304 - Introduction to Quantum Mechanics
Principles and applications of quantum mechanics, wave mechanics, the Schroedinger equation, expectation values, Hermitian operators, commuting observables,  one-dimensional systems, harmonic oscillators, angular momentum, three dimensional systems.
PHYS 354 - Electric and Magnetic Fields
Applications of electricity and magnetism. Maxwell's equations.
PHYS 408 - Optics
Principles and applications of optical physics. Interference, diffraction, coherence, polarization, Fresnel relations, optical coatings, waves in dielectric media, Gaussian beams, waveguides, optical cavities, lasers, fibre optics, and Fourier optics.
PHYS 409 - c Experimental Physics
A laboratory course with a wide choice of experiments for fourth year Honours and Major students. Topics include solid state, nuclear, classical, quantum, electromagnetic and low temperature physics. For six credits, two weekly laboratory periods and completion of a project in second term are required.
PHYS 412 - Quantum Physics
Fundamentals of atomic, nuclear, particle, and condensed matter physics.
PHYS 438 - Zoological Physics
Animal systems viewed from a physicist's perspective. Topics include sensory systems, energy budgets, locomotion, internal flows, physical advantages of grouping.
PHYS 473 - Applied Nuclear Physics
Radioactive decay and radiations, nuclear properties, interactions of neutrons, physical principles of power reactors, nuclear fusion, radiation monitoring, and safety.
Follow this program
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Hennings Building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
The Department of Physics and Astronomy is housed in the historic Hennings Building, which opened in 1947. Laboratories are generally hosted in the teaching and demo rooms of the Hebb Building and Theatre, which recently underwent renovations.
Find out more
Your future
A degree in Physics can lead to a career in medical physics, education, high technology, business, science journalism, or many other fields. The specialization will help you cultivate your ability to think logically, while also emphasizing research and communication skills. A high level of numeracy and strong computational skills are also vital to the successful completion of a BSc in Physics.
More than one third of UBC BSc Physics graduates further their studies in MSc/PhD programs or medical, law, education, or journalism school.
Program graduates
MSc candidate in Astrophysics, University of Tokyo
PhD candidate in Applied Physics, California Institute of Technology
Associate attorney, Norton Rose Fulbright Canada LLP
Software engineer, Google
UBC stories
After graduating from UBC, Euweng found a way to pursue his love of music and physics at the same time by going on to study acoustics at the Peabody Conservatory of Johns Hopkins University.
Euweng Chan, Physics
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry, and
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Michelle, a Physics and Astronomy student who discovered four planets
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC