Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/political-science-vancouver/

Political Science
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Political Science is the study of the nature, causes, and consequences of collective decisions and actions taken by groups of people embedded in cultures and institutions that structure power and authority. In this program you'll learn how to understand, interpret, explain, and critically assess events, patterns, and structures of politics and government and generate observations of relevance to policy makers, their fellow citizens, and global communities.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Political Science will increase your understanding of critical issues and developments that affect our lives. Examples of such issues are the nature of power, the causes of conflict, the tensions of Canadian federalism, security in the post-Cold War international system, globalization, critiques of liberal democracy, feminist analysis, democratization, and the rise of Asia. You can select a Major, Minor, or Honours degree in Political Science, or Combined Majors with Economics and Philosophy.
Campus features
A focal point for research in political science at UBC is the The Centre for the Study of Democratic Institutions. The Centre seeks to advance research, teaching and the broad communication of ideas and knowledge about institutional innovation in democratic governance.
The Centre for the Study of Democratic Institutions
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
POLI 100 - Introduction to Politics
Political issues and case studies, drawn from Canadian and international contexts, will be used to introduce students to central debates and concepts of politics and political analysis.
POLI 101 - The Government of Canada
An examination of the institutions and processes of Canadian government.
POLI 110 - Investigating Politics: An Introduction to Scientific Political Analysis
The logic, challenges, and major strategies of empirical political research. Core research tasks including: asking answerable questions, defining concepts, formulating hypotheses, gathering evidence, measuring variables, constructing comparisons, drawing causal inferences, and reporting findings.
HIST 103 - World History Since 1900
International relations; changes in the nation-state system; the emergence and impact of major political ideologies; genocide; decolonization; the globalization of trade; and the dynamics of economic, social, cultural, and environmental change in a global context.
HIST 101 - World History to Oceanic Contact
Origins and diffusion of the world's great religions; cultural contact along overland trade routes; emergence of civilizations such as the Inca, Chinese, and Christian European; ordering of societies and their political development.
POLI 260 - Introduction to Global Politics
Applies conceptual tools to topics such as war, conflict management, the global economy, poverty, and civil society.
POLI 220 - Introduction to Comparative Politics
A comparative analysis of foreign governments. Specific countries to be covered will vary according to section; consult the brochure issued by the Department.
POLI 240 - Currents of Political Thought
A critical introduction to some major ideologies and traditions of Western political thought that examines their philosophical origins as well as their implications for political life.
HIST 200 - Asia and the World
The political, economic, social, cultural, and human interactions between Asia and the world, inter-Asian relations, Asian diaspora, colonialism, war and the social consequences of conflict, decolonization, industrial growth, and developing world issues.
POLI 310 - Parliament and Party: The Strategy of Politics
Parliamentary and party politics, showing how politicians in Canada and other countries strike bargains with allies, outmanoeuvre opponents in debates, and manipulate institutional rules.
POLI 303 - Federalism in Canada
Theory and practice of federalism; cultural duality, social stresses, and problems of flexibility. The constitution and role of the courts.
POLI 327 - European Integration
Post-1945 integration of Europe, comparison of national politics and attitudes to integration, and the history and institutions of the European Union.
POLI 328 - Topics in Comparative Politics
Topics will vary from year to year. Consult the departmental website.
POLI 364 - International Organizations
Analysis of the activities and influence of modern international organizations in international security, economic, and social issue areas. The course will focus on organizations associated with the United Nations, but other world and regional bodies will be analysed as well.
POLI 466 - The Politics of International Law
Seminar on the origins and politics of international law, and its impact on international affairs; the laws of war, human rights, environment, law of the sea, and international criminal law.
POLI 461 - Peace and Conflict Studies
A seminar on a selected topic concerning the causes of war and strategies for the promotion of peace. For specific content in a given year, consult the departmental website.
POLI 429 - Seminar in Issues in Gender and Politics
POLI 448 - Democratic Theory
Overview of traditional democratic theory with close readings of several contemporary theories, such as those of Habermas, Rawls, and Arendt. Readings are drawn from complete original texts, and assessment is based on a research essay.
POLI 406 - Aboriginal Peoples and Canadian Politics
Seminar in political structures, activities, and demands of aboriginal peoples; policies of federal, provincial, and territorial governments; relations between these governments and aboriginal peoples; role of the courts and the Constitution.
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
UBC stories
"When I originally came to UBC as a transfer student, I was unsure of what I wanted my academic and career futures to be. I had just spent a year studying musical theatre in the United States, and realized it wasn’t the right path for me. After taking a campus tour of UBC Vancouver and speaking to the incredible student ambassadors, I knew transferring to UBC was a step onto the right path. Two years later, and it is the best decision I have ever made, though it was extremely scary and nerve-wracking at first."
Elleda S., Political Science
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Altay, a UBC student who competed at the World Model UN in Singapore
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC