Link: https://www.grad.ubc.ca/prospective-students/graduate-degree-programs/professional-master-of-business-administration

Graduate School
»
Prospective Students
»
Graduate Degree Programs
»
Professional Master of Business Administration (PMBA)
Professional Master of Business Administration (PMBA)
Canadian Immigration Updates
Review details about the recently announced changes to study and work permits that apply to master’s and doctoral degree students.
Read more
Notice: Canadian Immigration Updates
Go to programs search
The PMBA is not administered by the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies. Please check the
Sauder School of Business
website for admission requirements, deadlines and application procedure.
Overview
UBC Sauder’s Professional Master of Business Administration (PMBA) program is perfect for people who want an MBA but don't want to lose career momentum. We designed the 24-month curriculum to fit around your full-time work schedule, while still challenging you. You'll deepen your understanding of the inner workings of an organization, cultivate your leadership skills, and build your business acumen.
Through collaborative course work and personalized career coaching, the UBC Professional MBA will build your business acumen. It will help you discover your leadership style, deepen your understanding of the inner workings of an organization, and cultivate your strategic thinking skills.
The UBC Sauder School of Business is consistently ranked among the top schools in the world for the international makeup of our faculty and student bodies, plus we’re renowned for our contribution to business research and experiential education. This prestige opens doors for our graduates.
For specific program requirements, please refer to the departmental program website
Program Structure
Our UBC Professional MBA program is designed for work/life/school balance. Built on the feedback of past candidates, our Professional MBA is the evolution of our Part-time MBA.
Classes take place every two or three weekends, giving you a break in between. Two courses are taught over six weeks, allowing you to focus. All exams are done online, making them easy to access.
Quick Facts
Faculty
Faculty of Commerce and Business Administration
Mode of delivery
On campus / Online combination
Program Components
Coursework only
Academic Unit
Robert H. Lee Graduate School
Specialization
Business Administration
Tuition (First Year)
Domestic: $26,745.70 | International: $49,643.20
School
Sauder School of Business
Information Sessions
Register
Application Guide
Download
Graduate Viewbook
View
GradProspect Newsletter
Subscribe
Open All
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Tuition & Financial Support
Tuition
Fees
Canadian Citizen / Permanent Resident / Refugee / Diplomat
International
Application Fee
$160.25
$160.25
Tuition *
Installments per year
3
3
Tuition
per installment
$8,915.24
$16,547.72
Program Fee
$53,491.44
$99,286.32
Int. Tuition Award (ITA) per year (
if eligible
)
Not applicable
Other Fees and Costs
Student Fees
(yearly)
$1,116.60 (approx.)
Costs of living
Estimate your
costs of living
with our interactive tool in order to start developing a financial plan for your graduate studies.
Deposit to accept offer (if admitted)
Deposit requirement
$5000.00
$5000.00
* Regular, full-time tuition. For on-leave, extension, continuing or part time (if applicable) fees see
UBC Calendar
.
All fees for the year are subject to adjustment and UBC reserves the right to change any fees without notice at any time, including tuition and student fees. Tuition fees are reviewed annually by the UBC Board of Governors. In recent years, tuition increases have been 2% for continuing domestic students and between 2% and 5% for continuing international students. New students may see higher increases in tuition. Admitted students who defer their admission are subject to the potentially higher tuition fees for incoming students effective at the later program start date. In case of a discrepancy between this webpage and the UBC Calendar, the UBC Calendar entry will be held to be correct.
Financial Support
Applicants to UBC have access to a variety of funding options.
Employer support
Organizations may provide their employees with tuition benefits as part of an employment package to support lifelong learning of their workforce.
Scholarships & awards (merit-based funding)
Professional / course-based programs usually do
not
provide merit-based funding. Some programs may offer bursaries.
Financial aid (need-based funding)
Canadian and US applicants may qualify for governmental loans to finance their studies. Please review
eligibility and types of loans
.
All students may be able to access private sector or bank loans.
Foreign government scholarships
Many foreign governments provide support to their citizens in pursuing education abroad. International applicants should check the various governmental resources in their home country, such as the Department of Education, for available scholarships.
Working while studying
The possibility to pursue work to supplement income may depend on the demands the program has on students. It should be carefully weighed if work leads to prolonged program durations or whether work placements can be meaningfully embedded into a program.
International students enrolled as full-time students with a valid study permit can work
on campus
for unlimited hours and work
off-campus
for no more than 20 hours a week.
A good starting point to explore student jobs is the UBC
Work Learn
program or a
Co-Op placement
.
Tax credits and RRSP withdrawals
Students with taxable income in Canada may be able to claim
federal
or
provincial
tax credits.
Canadian residents with RRSP accounts may be able to use the
Lifelong Learning Plan
(LLP) which allows students to withdraw amounts from their registered retirement savings plan (RRSPs) to finance full-time training or education for themselves or their partner.
Please review
Filing taxes in Canada
on the student services website for more information.
Cost Estimator
Applicants have access to the
cost estimator
to develop a financial plan that takes into account various income sources and expenses.
Enrolment, Duration & Other Stats
These statistics show data for the Professional Master of Business Administration (PMBA). Data are separated for each degree program combination. You may view data for other degree options in the respective program profile.
ENROLMENT DATA
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
Applications
89
122
131
108
102
Offers
37
69
76
61
69
New Registrations
32
60
54
54
61
Total Enrolment
121
115
116
110
79
Completion Rates & Times
This program has a graduation rate of
80%
based on 40 students admitted between 2015 - 2018. Based on 159 graduations between 2020 - 2023 the minimum time to completion is 1.36 years and the maximum time is 3.45 years with an average of
2.17 years
of study. All calculations exclude leave times.
Disclaimer
Admissions data refer to all UBC Vancouver applications, offers, new registrants for each registration year, May to April, e.g. data for 2022 refers to programs starting in 2022 Summer and 2022 Winter session, i.e. May 1, 2022 to April 30, 2023. Data on total enrolment reflects enrolment in Winter Session Term 1 and are based on snapshots taken on November 1 of each registration year. Program completion data are only provided for datasets comprised of more than 4 individuals. Graduation rates exclude students who transfer out of their programs. Rates and times of completion depend on a number of variables (e.g. curriculum requirements, student funding), some of which may have changed in recent years for some programs.
Related Programs
Same specialization
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Master of Business Analytics (MBAN)
Master of Management (MM)
Same Academic Unit
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration in Accounting (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration in Finance (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration in Management Information Systems (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration in Management Science (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration in Marketing and Behavioural Science (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration in Organizational Behaviour (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration in Strategy and Business Economics (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration in Transportation and Logistics (PhD)
Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration in Urban Land Economics (PhD)
Master of Science in Business Administration in Finance (MSCB)
Master of Science in Business Administration in Management Information Systems (MSCB)
Master of Science in Business Administration in Transportation and Logistics (MSCB)
Further Information
Specialization
Business Administration
The 9-month Master of Management (MM) at UBC Sauder's Robert H. Lee Graduate School is for university graduates with non-business undergraduate degrees. Whatever your degree - from math to music - this is an opportunity to gain the business skills needed to impress today's employers and gain an edge in a competitive job market.
The 12-month UBC Master in Business Analytics (MBAN) is about much more than technical know-how. It captures the full analytics spectrum, including data management, data analytics, and decision analytics. You will learn how to make strategically sound recommendations and data-driven business decisions—exactly what cutting-edge companies around the world need.
The 16-month, full-time Master of Business Administration (MBA) program at UBC Sauder's Robert H. Lee Graduate School is an opportunity for high-achieving, ambitious professionals to take their career to the next level.
UBC Calendar
https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/faculties-colleges-and-schools/faculty-commerce-and-business-administration/professional-masters-degrees/professional-master-business-administration
Program Website
https://www.sauder.ubc.ca/programs/masters-degrees/ubc-professional-mba
Faculty Overview
Faculty of Commerce and Business Administration
Academic Unit
Robert H. Lee Graduate School
Classification
Management and trade
Program Website
Program Enquiries
If you have reviewed the information on this program page and understand the requirements for this program, you may
send an enquiry
Departments/Programs may update graduate degree program details through the
Faculty & Staff
portal. To update contact details for application inquiries, please use this
form
.
The city and the sea
Take a break from studying with opportunities at your fingertips. Whether you want to settle down in a café or take your research outdoors, we have a place for you.