Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/psychology-okanagan-ba/

Psychology (BA)
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Psychology explores diverse topics, from the factors involved in social interactions among individuals and groups, to the processes underlying the nervous system, to moral development in children and what gives us a sense of well-being. Round out your degree with arts courses that complement your study of human and animal behaviour.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Find out more
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Psychology is the study of human and animal behaviour, ranging from the factors involved in social interactions among groups of people and the firing of individual cells in the nervous system to moral development in children. A psychologist might assess and treat mental or behavioural problems, research psychological processes through observation and experimentation, or act as a consultant to corporations to improve employee motivation and productivity. You can complete either a Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Sciences in Psychology. Bachelor of Arts programs offer a major, honours, or a General Studies BA with a concentration in Psychology.
Experiential learning and research
Advanced courses give you the opportunity to apply your education to real-life situations. You can also complete advanced coursework where you will be guided in the practical application of research methods for planning and carrying out program evaluations, including developing your own evaluation designs. Directed studies courses give you the opportunity to conduct an investigation of a research problem, which will require a written report of your findings. The Irving K. Barber Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences holds an annual undergraduate research conference on UBC’s Okanagan campus to showcase student research projects.
You can meet your Psychology program peers and explore career options by joining the Psychology Course Union, a student organization on UBC’s Okanagan campus.
Advanced courses
Directed studies
Psychology Course Union
What can you do with this major after graduation?
Your Psychology career options
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
PSYO 121 - Introduction to Psychology: Personal Functioning
Survey of topics in psychology which relate to personal functioning. Methods and statistics, motivation and emotion, life span development, social processes, personality, abnormal behaviour, and psychotherapy.
PSYO 111 - Introduction to Psychology: Basic Processes
Survey of topics in psychology which relate to basic processes. Methods and statistics, the nervous system and physiological processes, sensation and perception, learning, cognition and memory.
ENGL 112 - Studies in Composition
Study and application of the principles of university-level discourse, with emphasis on processes of research-based writing. Essays and exercises are required.  or
STAT 121 - Elementary Statistics
Descriptive and inferential statistics, elementary probability, probability distributions, estimation of parameters, hypotheses testing, correlation, linear regression. Cannot provide credit towards a B.Sc. degree. Good for CA, CMA credit.
PSYO 230 - Biopsychology of Behaviour
Topics will include structure and function of the nervous system, research methods, and their application to a selection of the following topics: human brain damage and recovery, stress, selected psychological and neurological disorders, sleep, memory, and vision.
PSYO 271 - Introduction to Data Analysis
Introduction to behavioural data analysis focusing on the use of inferential statistics in psychology and the conceptual interpretation of data as related to basic experimental designs (laboratory, field research methods). A required course for students majoring in Psychology.
PSYO 219 - Introduction to Cognition
A brief introduction to how the mind works from a cognitive perspective. Topics will be drawn from memory, decision making, reasoning, attention, object perception, and speech and language.
PSYO 270 - Introduction to Research Methods and Design
Introduction to the procedures and difficulties in the design and critical evaluation of research in experimental psychology. Various research designs and basic statistics. A required course for students majoring in Psychology.
PSYO 241 - Personality
Focuses on a variety of personality theories including psychoanalytic, behaviouristic, cognitive, humanistic, and trait perspectives. Methods of research and critical analysis of theoretical foundations and research.
PSYO 311 - Memory
An examination of memory systems and how they work. Topics will focus on how we input, store, and retrieve memories; the systems that process these memories; and the disruptions of memory in amnesia, false memory, and eyewitness testimony.
PSYO 321 - Child Development
Survey of developmental psychology, focusing on the childhood segment of the lifespan. Examines the physical, cognitive, and psychosocial development of children from conception through the school years.
PSYO 353 - Psychological Aspects of Human Sexuality I
Academic overview of human sexuality from a biological, psychological, and behavioural perspective. Examination of the difficulties of research in the area of human sexuality, biological foundations of sexuality, human reproduction, birth control, and psychosexual development.
PSYO 310 - Learning
A critical survey of the basic experimental findings and theory of the learning process with emphasis on the theoretical formulation of the necessary conditions for learning, retention, and transfer of training.
PSYO 335 - Drugs and Behaviour
Surveys topics related to the effects of drugs on behaviour. Cellular mechanisms of action, drug absorption, tolerance, addiction, withdrawal, and placebo effects. Classes of drugs studied will include alcohol, tranquilizers, nicotine, stimulants, opiates, marijuana, hallucinogens, antidepressants, and antipsychotics.
PSYO 442 - Interpersonal Behaviour and Psychopathology
Interpersonal aspects of psychopathology including interpersonal theory, attachment, self-fulfilling prophecies, depression, social anxiety, schizophrenia, eating disorders, conduct disorders, group psychotherapy, conflict, and client-therapist relationships.
PSYO 457 - Applied Social Psychology in the Workplace
Theories and concepts of social psychology applied to working in the organizational context with an emphasis on human service delivery systems (health, mental health, education, justice, social services, and others).
PSYO 462 - Evolutionary Psychology of Aggression and the Blind Movement
Compares and contrasts ecological, evolutionary, and social aspects of the maintenance and control of violence in chimpanzees, bonobos, and humans. With this background, psychological aspects of adaptation to conflict are considered, with a focus on the Blind Movement.
PSYO 506 - Contemporary Theories of Psychology
Major theories that comprise core areas of contemporary psychology. Historical perspectives of schools of thought, social and institutional contexts, and evolution of the discipline.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life
Read admissions blog post
Meet Ben, a Psychology and Anthropology student who drove cross-country to make UBC home
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC