Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/psychology-okanagan-bsc/

Psychology (BSc)
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Psychology explores diverse topics, from the factors involved in social interactions among individuals and groups, to the processes underlying the nervous system, to moral development in children and what gives us a sense of well-being. Round out your degree with science courses that complement your study of human and animal behaviour.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Psychology is the study of human and animal behaviour, ranging from the factors involved in social interactions among groups of people and the firing of individual cells in the nervous system to moral development in children. A psychologist might assess and treat mental or behavioural problems, research psychological processes through observation and experimentation, or act as a consultant to corporations to improve employee motivation and productivity. You can complete either a Bachelor of Sciences or Bachelor of Arts in Psychology.
Experiential learning and research
Advanced courses give you the opportunity to apply your education to real-life situations. You can also complete advanced coursework where you will be guided in the practical application of research methods for planning and carrying out program evaluations, including developing your own evaluation designs. Directed studies courses give you the opportunity to conduct an investigation of a research problem, which will require a written report of your findings. The Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science holds an annual undergraduate research conference on UBC’s Okanagan campus to showcase student research projects.
You can meet your Psychology program peers and explore career options by joining the Psychology Course Union, a student organization on UBC’s Okanagan campus.
Advanced courses
Directed studies
Psychology Course Union
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
PSYO 111 - Introduction to Psychology: Basic Processes
Survey of topics in psychology which relate to basic processes. Methods and statistics, the nervous system and physiological processes, sensation and perception, learning, cognition and memory.
PSYO 121 - Introduction to Psychology: Personal Functioning
Survey of topics in psychology which relate to personal functioning. Methods and statistics, motivation and emotion, life span development, social processes, personality, abnormal behaviour, and psychotherapy.
PSYO 219 - Introduction to Cognition
A brief introduction to how the mind works from a cognitive perspective. Topics will be drawn from memory, decision making, reasoning, attention, object perception, and speech and language.
PSYO 230 - Biopsychology of Behaviour
Topics will include structure and function of the nervous system, research methods, and their application to a selection of the following topics: human brain damage and recovery, stress, selected psychological and neurological disorders, sleep, memory, and vision.
PSYO 241 - Personality
Focuses on a variety of personality theories including psychoanalytic, behaviouristic, cognitive, humanistic, and trait perspectives. Methods of research and critical analysis of theoretical foundations and research.
PSYO 270 - Introduction to Research Methods and Design
Introduction to the procedures and difficulties in the design and critical evaluation of research in experimental psychology. Various research designs and basic statistics. A required course for students majoring in Psychology.
PSYO 271 - Introduction to Data Analysis
Introduction to behavioural data analysis focusing on the use of inferential statistics in psychology and the conceptual interpretation of data as related to basic experimental designs (laboratory, field research methods). A required course for students majoring in Psychology. STAT 121 is recommended.
PSYO 310 - Learning
A critical survey of the basic experimental findings and theory of the learning process with emphasis on the theoretical formulation of the necessary conditions for learning, retention, and transfer of training.
PSYO 311 - Memory
An examination of memory systems and how they work. Topics will focus on how we input, store, and retrieve memories; the systems that process these memories; and the disruptions of memory in amnesia, false memory, and eyewitness testimony.
PSYO 335 - Drugs and Behaviour
Surveys topics related to the effects of drugs on behaviour. Cellular mechanisms of action, drug absorption, tolerance, addiction, withdrawal, and placebo effects. Classes of drugs studied will include alcohol, tranquilizers, nicotine, stimulants, opiates, marijuana, hallucinogens, antidepressants, and antipsychotics.
PSYO 343 - Psychopathology I
Detailed introduction to general principles underlying scientific study of mental health and psychopathology. Critical theoretical and methodological issues related to the assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of psychological disorders. Psychological disorders used to illustrate general issues and principles discussed.
PSYO 348 - Health Psychology
Critical survey of research and theory on relation between psychological factors (behaviour, emotion, cognition, personality, and interpersonal relationships) and health. Health-related behaviours: smoking and drug use, effect of stressful events on health, methods for coping with stress, impact of chronic illness on family, and social support systems.
PSYO 440 - Introduction to Counselling and Interviewing
Theoretical and applied issues fundamental to psychological counselling and other helping professions. Development of basic interviewing skills. Credit will not be granted for both PSYO 440 and PSYO 480K.
PSYO 480 - Advanced Special Topics in Psychology
Intensive examination of selected advanced topics and issues in psychology. May be repeated on a different topic for a maximum of 9 credits during complete program of study.
PSYO 481 - Directed Studies
Directed investigation of a research problem in psychology requiring a written report of findings.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics is strongly recommended
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Meet Eva, and find out how she kept astronaut Chris Hadfield connected to Earth
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC