Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/psychology-vancouver-ba/

Psychology
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Study human and animal behaviour using scientific methods and from a variety of perspectives including behavioural neuroscience, cognition, clinical, health, developmental, social and personality psychology, and quantitative methods.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Why this program?
UBC's Department of Psychology ranks 10th in the world and first in Canada by Times Higher Education World University Rankings.
UBC Psychology is a world leader in innovative research with over 45 laboratories across eight sub-disciplines.
Our academic programs offer enriched teaching and learning experiences to position you for success in graduate studies, as scientists, or in a career in the public and private sectors.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Psychology is the scientific study of behaviour in humans and other species. Psychologists draw on a broad range of perspectives to explore topics such as the effects of social interactions on health, language and moral development in children, the effects of drugs on consciousness and the brain, and mental illness and wellness. Psychology has many practical applications, including identifying the most effective ways to learn and remember things, designing workplaces for employees that are healthy and productive, treating disorders like depression and anxiety. Our program outcomes offer an overview of what students in this program can expect to learn.
Experiential learning and research
All psychology majors conduct a research project in their second-year course PSYC 217, and many of our students go on to conduct research with world class faculty and graduate students by volunteering in research labs and taking Directed Studies courses.
Campus features
UBC has more than 45 research labs in these sub-disciplinary specializations: Behavioural Neuroscience, Clinical, Cognitive Science, Developmental, Health, Quantitative Methods, and Social/Personality.
Send details
Why this program?
UBC's Department of Psychology ranks 10th in the world and first in Canada by Times Higher Education World University Rankings.
UBC Psychology is a world leader in innovative research with over 45 laboratories across eight sub-disciplines.
Our academic programs offer enriched teaching and learning experiences to position you for success in graduate studies, as scientists, or in a career in the public and private sectors.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
PSYC 101 - Introduction to Biological and Cognitive Psychology
Introduction to Methods and Statistics, Biopsychology, Learning, Perception, Memory, and Cognition.
PSYC 102 - Introduction to Developmental, Social, Personality, and Clinical Psychology
Introduction to methods and statistics, motivation, assessment, developmental, personality, clinical, and social psychology.
PSYC 217 - Research Methods
Focus on various research methods used in psychology, with an emphasis on critical thinking and experimental design.  Restricted to students in the Faculty of Arts who have declared their major in one of Psychology, Cognitive Systems, or Speech Sciences (Linguistics Department).
PSYC 218 - Analysis of Behavioural Data
Use of inferential statistics in psychology and conceptual interpretation of data; experimental design (laboratory, field research methods); presentation of data analyses in reports. PSYC 218 excludes credit for a number of other statistics courses in various departments. Please consult the Science Exclusion List (www.students.ubc.ca/calendar/index.cfm?tree=12,215,410,414) before registering.
PSYC 302 - Infancy
Human cognition, perception, motor, social, emotional needs, brain development and their interactions from birth until the emergence of language.
PSYC 304 - Brain and Behaviour
The neurobiological bases of behaviour; brain processes involved in perception, motivation, emotion, psychopathology, learning and memory. Open to all Arts and Science majors except those in the B.Sc. Psychology program.
PSYC 401 - Clinical Psychology
Theoretical and research foundations of the processes of assessment and behaviour modification in clinical psychology.
PSYC 404 - Psychology of Religion
Cognitive, emotional, and motivational underpinnings of religious behaviour; supernatural beliefs, magical thinking, ritual, sacrifice; religion's role in morality, prosociality, health, violence, and intergroup relations.
PSYC 409 - Cognitive Neuropsychology
The structure of the mind as revealed by brain injury, neurological illness, and surgical intervention.  Topics include attention, memory, language, sense of self, topographic awareness, moral reasoning, emotion, theory of mind, and social awareness.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
View larger image
Douglas T. Kenny Building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
The Psychology program at UBC's Vancouver campus offers a friendly and professional academic setting. Each year the department partners with the Psychology Students’ Association to host events ranging from faculty-student socials and meet-your-professor events, to workshops on resume writing and career building, to panels on expanding your UBC experience and pursuing graduate studies.
Find out more
Your future
Studying psychology not only gives you a broad range of skills spanning science and the arts, it prepares you for a number of exciting career options. Psychology graduates qualify for entry-level positions in fields as diverse as marketing, sales, government, journalism, advertising, healthcare, social work, and counselling.
Program graduates
Founder and CEO, 720 Sweets & Etc.
Master of Science candidate, The University of British Columbia
Chief scientific officer, Distill Analytics
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Eva, and find out how she kept astronaut Chris Hadfield connected to Earth
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC