Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/religion/

Religion
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
The Program in the Study of Religion provides a solid education in a variety of religions from a number of disciplinary perspectives. It incorporates different regions and historical periods while allowing you to focus on the religious traditions of your choice. You'll discover a range of approaches to religion, including literary, historical, cultural, anthropological, psychological, and sociological methodologies.
Why this program?
Attend program-sponsored colloquia and social events.
Develop a coherent area of expertise by choosing from different historical and cultural frameworks.
Participate in a dynamic senior seminar with distinguished faculty to conclude the program.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
UBC’s Program in the Study of Religion is the only UBC program designed to allow for the cross-cultural, cross-disciplinary study of religion. It allows you to build a major with three core classes within the program, and take additional courses from departments throughout the Faculty of Arts.
The program is ideal for students who are interested in understanding the role of religions in world history, global cultures, society, and the arts, and in learning how religions have been studied.
Campus features
UBC has study exchange agreements with 175 universities in 42 countries, able to support exchange in every area of cultural interest.
Send details
Why this program?
Attend program-sponsored colloquia and social events.
Develop a coherent area of expertise by choosing from different historical and cultural frameworks.
Participate in a dynamic senior seminar with distinguished faculty to conclude the program.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
RELG 101 - Introduction to the Western (Abrahamic) Religions: Judaism, Christianity, and Islam
An overview of the three main western monotheistic (Abrahamic) religions, together with the concepts used in studying religion, The focus will be on the origins and representative texts along with some historical development and current experience of each religion.
ASIA 110 - Introduction to the Major Eastern Religions
Introduction to the major Asian religious traditions (Islam, Hinduism, Sikhism, Jainism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Daoism, Christianity, Shintoism, and Shamanism); employs theoretical models drawn from religious studies.
CLST 105 - Greek and Roman Mythology
Greek and Roman mythology and its interpretation. Emphasis on ancient texts read in English translation.
RGST 200 - Introduction to the Study of Religion
Study of religion through a comparative, cross-cultural, and interdisciplinary approach to humans' engagement with the sacred. Examines religions as complex systems that share certain fundamental common features.
RELG 201 - Near Eastern and Biblical Mythology
An introduction to the world of Near Eastern mythology, from the Gilgamesh Epic to the Book of Genesis and beyond.
RELG 208 - Modern Islam
The history and culture, values, and socio-political movements of the Islamic world from 1500 to the modern day; the interconnections between power, politics, gender, and the arts in modern Islamic societies. This course is highly recommended as a basis for all 300- and 400-level Islamic Studies courses.
ASIA 258 - Religion in South Asia
The major religious traditions of South Asia, including Hinduism, Islam, Sikhism, and Buddhism; the significance of religious thought and practice in premodern India, as well as the continuing impact of religion in today's globalized South Asia.
ANTH 206 - Witches, Vampires, and Zombies: Anthropology of the Supernatural
Anthropological approaches to supernatural beliefs in both traditional and contemporary societies.
RGST 300 - Theory and Method in the Study of Religion
Theories and methods for the critical study of religion as believed and practiced in different times and places. Explores methodologies for studying dimensions of religion such as space, bodily practices, cognition, and material culture.
RELG 307 - Sex, Lies, and Violence in the Hebrew Bible
An exploration of the Bible's "dark side," with emphasis on texts that center on sex, deceit, and murder.
ANTH 329 - Contemporary First Nations Issues
Anthropological perspectives on contemporary issues of public policy, law, and political activity, as they affect the place of First Nations people in British Columbia and Canada.
GERM 404 - Religion and German Literature (in English)
Religion and literature in Germanic cultural history.
RGST 400 - Advanced Seminar in the Study of Religion
Seminar focused on a special theme in the interdisciplinary study of religion (e.g., religious violence, religion and the secular, religious space). Analysis of the theme's contemporary manifestations and implications, through discussion of recent scholarship, both theoretical and case studies.
PSYC 404 - Psychology of Religion
Cognitive, emotional, and motivational underpinnings of religious behaviour; supernatural beliefs, magical thinking, ritual, sacrifice; religion's role in morality, prosociality, health, violence, and intergroup relations.
HIST 441 - History of the Holocaust
A study of the systematic attempt to destroy European Jewry during the Nazi regime, 1933-1945. Topics of special importance include: the motivations and behaviour of the perpetrators; the reactions of the victims; the roles of bystanders.
ANTH 415 - Religion and Society
Comparative study of religious beliefs, practices, and movements; relations between religious, social, and political institutions; religion as a force for stability and change; anthropological/sociological theories of religion.
GRSJ 410 - Religious Feminisms
Examines religious feminisms from three Abrahamic traditions. An in-depth study of challenges various doctrinal discourses and practices pose for feminist projects.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
View larger image
Buchanan Building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
This program lets you study religion in a contemporary context, as well as its history. By understanding religion's expressive forms, you can understand the diversity, dynamism, and staying power of religion today.
Find out more
Your future
Graduates of the Program in the Study of Religion can go on to graduate school, teaching, public sector work, work abroad, and more.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life on Snapchat
Read admissions blog post
Meet Patrick, a multimedia artist who finds inspiration all around him
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC