Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/romance-studies/

Romance Studies
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Romance languages are vehicles of communication and exchange across Europe, North and South America, the Caribbean, the Middle East, Africa, and Southeast Asia. You'll study the literatures, languages, and cultures of the Romance World.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
A specialization in Romance Studies allows students to gain an appreciation of Romance languages (French, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Romanian, Catalan, etc.), cultures and literatures through a uniquely interdisciplinary, transnational and cross-cultural perspective. Students in this flexible program have the opportunity to study more than one of the Romance languages, as well as consider both a historical and contemporary approach to studying the regions of Europe, North and South America, the Caribbean, the Middle East, Africa, Southeast Asia, and their many contacts, both in the past and present.
The program leads to the Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Arts Honours, and Minor degree in Romance Studies.
Campus features
UBC has exchange agreements with universities in Chile, Costa Rica, Italy, France, Mexico, Spain, and Switzerland, allowing up to two terms of study to earn credits towards your UBC degree.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
FREN 101 - Beginners' French I
Basic vocabulary, the rudiments of grammar and familiarization with cultures of the French-speaking world. This course is aligned with level A1 objectives of the CEFR.
ITAL 101 - Beginners' Italian I
Introduction to the essentials of Italian vocabulary, expressions, grammar and cultural life. Focus on listening, reading, speaking and writing skills in everyday situations in the present tense. Aligned with CEFR level A1 objectives.
SPAN 101 - Beginners' Spanish I
Fundamentals of the Spanish language. Communicate with basic vocabulary in common tasks and situations related to present and future events. Aligned with CEFR level A1 objectives.Credit will be granted for either SPAN 103 or both SPAN 101, SPAN 102.
PORT 101 - First-Year Portuguese I
Grammar, composition, translation, oral practice.
RMST 201 - Introduction to Literatures and Cultures of the Romance World I: Medieval to Early Modern
An introduction to the main themes that shaped the Romance World as its different national identities emerged in the Mediterranean sphere.
RMST 202 - Introduction to Literatures and Cultures of the Romance World II: Modern to Post-Modern
An introduction to the main themes that shaped the Romance World in the age of the nation state, imperialism, colonization, and decolonization.
RMST 260 - Introduction to the Analysis of Portuguese and Brazilian Cultures
Critical analysis of different cultural genres, including music, film and visual art through the study of selected Portuguese and Brazilian texts.
RMST 280 - Revolution!
Concepts, theories, and practice of protest, revolt, and revolution in the Hispanic world, highlighting the intersection of politics and culture through novels, poetry, letters, diaries, and/or historical accounts of specific revolutionary uprisings.
RMST 300 - History of the Romance Languages
Development of the Romance language family from its origins in Latin to contemporary varieties. Emphasis on French, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish.
RMST 301 - Prose Fiction and Non-Fiction of the Romance World
Fiction and non-fiction of the Romance-speaking world from the Middle Ages to the present day from a comparative perspective.
RMST 302 - Theatre and Poetry of the Romance World
Theatre and poetry of the Romance-speaking world from the Middle Ages to the present day from a comparative perspective.
RMST 305 - Introduction to Romance Language Cinema
Overview of the history, aesthetics and characteristics of films in French, Italian, Spanish, and/or Portuguese.
RMST 402 - Visions of Nature and the Environment in the Romance World
History, literature and philosophy of anthropization and ecology in the Romance world.
RMST 419 - Studies in Romance Languages and Literature
Study of a literary or cultural topic that extends beyond just one of the Romance Languages. Consult the Department for this year's offerings.
RMST 460 - Studies in Portuguese and Brazilian Culture
Selected topics. Please see the Department website for current course offering information.
RMST 468 - Romance Linguistics
The Indo-European background; Classical and Vulgar Latin; the origin, development and spread of the Romance languages; their vocabulary, phonology, morphology, syntax; vernacular Latin texts and Romance texts.
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Meet Anne-Sophie, an Arts student who has found an international community at UBC
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC