Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/social-work/

Social Work
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Visit program website
Social work is a profession working for social justice at individual, family, organization, community, and societal levels through various knowledges, values, ethics, and skills. You'll gain the necessary skills, knowledge, ethics, and values to work in the different areas of social work intervention: direct practice , group work, and social community development.
Why this program?
Learn about critical and transformative social work theory and practice toward social justice.
Acquire skills in generalist and advanced professional social work practice, including field placements in diverse settings.
Take core courses based on values of human dignity, social equity, social justice, and scholarship.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
School of Social Work
Degree:
Bachelor of Social Work
Length
2 yrs
Co-op
No
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Before applying for admission, you must have completed at least 60 credits of transferable academic post-secondary course work, including first year English (3 credits), SOWK 200 and 201 (or transferable equivalents), and 18 credits in the social sciences and humanities.
The Social Work program assists you in acquiring competencies in social service delivery in the context of decolonization and social justice. This includes pedagogical and practice frameworks aimed at addressing issues of power and discrimination based on age, race, gender, sexual orientation, class, culture, and other categories.
The educational objective of the program is to provide you with the knowledge, values, ethics, and skills necessary for an initial level of professional practice focusing on the interface between personal problems and public issues. The program includes courses on theory, policy, research, and practice.
It is a single, integrated program that is generally completed in two years on a full-time basis. The curriculum includes courses on theory, policy, research, and practice, and is complemented by integrative seminars, electives, and two field practicums.
The Bachelor of Social Work degree is accredited by the Canadian Association for Social Work Education (CASWE). Prospective international students should determine certification requirements in the country of their intended practice.
You have to complete 728 hours of practicum hours over two years in community based placements under the supervision of agency staff. These placements can be in and outside of the Lower Mainland, depending on availability and your learning needs and interests.
Canadian Association for Social Work Education (CASWE)
Send details
Why this program?
Learn about critical and transformative social work theory and practice toward social justice.
Acquire skills in generalist and advanced professional social work practice, including field placements in diverse settings.
Take core courses based on values of human dignity, social equity, social justice, and scholarship.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
SOWK 305 - Topics in Social Work Practice I
Examinations of the foundation, knowledge and competencies underlying various topics in generalist social work practice. Enrolment is limited to students in the B.S.W. program
SOWK 310 - Interviewing Skills
Communication theory and interviewing skills and their application to the Social Work interview. Enrolment is limited to students in the BSW program.
SOWK 315 - Practicum I
A supervised practicum in an assigned social service, two days a week throughout the program year. Limited to students in the B.S.W. program. This course will be graded
SOWK 325 - Indigenous Peoples and Critical Social Work Analysis
Contemporary social issues facing Indigenous peoples and communities examined in the context of the history of Settler-Canadian/Indigenous relations; the impact of Settler-Canadian institutions upon Indigenous peoples; implications for social policy and social work practice. Enrolment is limited to students in the BSW program.
SOWK 337 - Culture and Race in Social Work Practice
Issues and problems inherent in practising social work in diverse cultural settings.
SOWK 400 - Canadian Social Policy
Analysis of race, gender, class and culture as factors in the distribution and delivery of Canadian social benefits and social services.
SOWK 405 - Social Work Practice II
This course examines the principles of optimal social work process with individuals, small groups, families and larger collectivities.
SOWK 415 - Practicum II
A supervised practicum in an assigned social service, two days a week throughout the program year. Enrolment is limited to students in the B.S.W. program. This course will be graded
SOWK 416 - Advanced Integrative Seminar in Social Work Theory, Policy and Practice
Development of professional judgement, evaluation, and self-evaluation in practice.
SOWK 420 - Introduction to Social Work Research
Theory and conduct of social research as applied to social welfare and social work practice. Development of social work research questions and design of studies. Enrolment is limited to students in the B.S.W. program, except by permission of the school.
Follow this program
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
Jack Bell Building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Social Work at UBC offers you the opportunity to assist people in need in the unique context of BC’s Lower Mainland and beyond. Our program is based on values of decolonizing social work practice toward social justice.
Find out more
Your future
Professional social work practice in diverse settings including child protection, health and mental health, community development, and educational settings. Graduates work in countless public and private agencies and organizations in numerous capacities.
Program graduates
Social worker, Ministry of Children and Family Development
Indigenous cultural safety strategic lead and lead facilitator, Vancouver Coastal Health
Social worker, Surrey Memorial Hospital
Related programs
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life on Snapchat
Read admissions blog post
Meet Dr. Wood, a groundbreaking researcher in HIV treatment
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC