Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/sociology-vancouver/

Sociology
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Sociology examines the processes of social and cultural life in human societies past and present, near and far. You'll study the lives of individuals with participation in social groups and networks, explore the linkages between societies, and cover topics such as inequality, gender and sexuality, race and ethnicity, law and criminal activity, immigration, families, and more.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Sociology is the study of human behaviour as it is shaped by society and in turn affects the social contexts in which we live. Contexts include informal groups, families, classrooms, work organizations, cultures, and societies. The effects of social categories on human behaviour constitute a topic of central interest within sociology. Sociologists use a variety of research methods, including historical analysis, participant observation, surveys, and field and laboratory experiments. You can select a Major, Minor, or Honours degree in Sociology.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
SOCI 100 - Introduction to Sociology
Introduction to problems in the analysis of social structures and processes. Basic sociological concepts will be introduced and their application demonstrated in various areas of sociology.
SOCI 101 - Social Interaction and Culture
Culture, identity, social interaction, relationships and socialization.
GRSJ 101 - Introduction to Social Justice
An overview of intersectional feminist debates and theoretical traditions.
ANTH 100 - Introduction to Cultural Anthropology
Basic concepts and methods of anthropology; culture and race; comparative study of social systems, religion, symbolism, art, and other institutions. Examples are drawn from a variety of cultures.
SOCI 102 - Inequality and Social Change
Inequality, institutions, social structure and social change.
SOCI 210 - Canadian Social Structure
Descriptive and analytic survey of such features as demographic characteristics, class structure, ethnicity, and regional variation in Canadian society as a basis for understanding current social issues.
SOCI 220 - Sociology of Indigenous Peoples
Sociological perspective of Indigenous peoples and issues both internationally and within Canada.
SOCI 250 - Crime and Society
Crime as a social phenomenon, with emphasis on the changing definitions of crime in relation to social and political change in Canadian and other societies. The scope and nature of the crime problem, the growth of criminology as a science and profession, and relationships between components of state criminal justice systems.
SOCI 260 - Technology, Work and Society
The social forces responsible for changing patterns of technological innovation and work organization in modern industrial societies. Emphasis on the organization of work and the labour force. Topics may include division of labour, professionalization, labour movements, management techniques and bureaucracy, the social context of research and development initiatives, the effects of new technologies (e.g., automation) on the work place and social aspects of technological development in the Third World.
SOCI 301 - Sociology of Development and Underdevelopment
Processes of social change in the Third World and other developing countries. Major themes stress the relationship between urbanization and industrialization; modernization and ethnic conflict; imperialism, neo-colonialism, and foreign aid; and intra-national modernization problems such as regional underdevelopment in industrial societies.
SOCI 302 - Ethnic and Racial Inequality
A critical examination of classical and contemporary theories and research evidence concerning ethnic and racial inequality at the societal and interpersonal levels.
SOCI 312 - Gender Relations
The nature of gender relations, their social and cultural expression, and theories of gender inequality.
SOCI 342 - Consumers and Consumption
The structure and culture of consuming and consumption.
SOCI 360 - Sociology and Natural Resources
Sociological perspectives on property, resource industries (such as agriculture, fishing, forestry and mining), resource development, and resource communities. May also include examination of social aspects of resource development in the Third World.
SOCI 414 - Feminist Theory
The emergence of feminist theory, its relationship to sociology, and the major theoretical schools of thought. The social basis and development of feminist thought from critiques of scholarship and research to contemporary debates will be addressed.
SOCI 415 - Theories of Family and Kinship
Theoretical approaches to the study of the family and family forms.
SOCI 420 - Sociology of the Environment
Sociological approaches to the study of environmental conflicts, issues, movements, impact of changing technology, economic development on the environment.
SOCI 444 - Sociology of Aging
Demographic, economic, and social trends associated with aging, ageism, and aging populations.
SOCI 466 - Sociology of Education
Examines the role of schooling in modern society including links with inequality, knowledge production, socialization and the economy.
Your future
Your career opportunities will vary widely across a range of fields including government, public policy, international development, business, non-profit, communications, research, education, and others.
There are many career paths that can combine your academics, skills, and experience with your different interests, including:
Addictions counsellor
Behavioural therapist
Census area manager
Charitable organization director
Child and youth worker
Communications manager
Community development worker
Social science statistician
Student services counsellor
Market researcher
News analyst
Careers with Sociology
UBC stories
"UBC really promotes cross-disciplinary learning and, in our case, it was a marriage of humanities, design, business, and technology," says Gary, recounting his experience developing Curb, a mobile app for street art.
Gary Yarbrough, Sociology and Urban Studies
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Peter, a residence advisor and all-around fan of the Okanagan
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC