Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/spanish-hispanic-studies/

Spanish
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
The Spanish program offers a variety of courses in Spanish language at all levels, and in Hispanic literature, culture, and civilization. Language courses focus on the development of oral, grammar, writing, and communicative skills, while literature and culture courses help develop critical and analytical skills.
Why this program?
Join 500 million Spanish speakers worldwide by speaking the language of commerce, culture, passion, and politics.
Make an impact locally and abroad through real-world projects and hands-on learning.
Gain access to great works of Hispanic literature, art, cinema, music, fashion, and cuisine.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
In the Spanish program you’ll find courses on language, literature, and culture at all levels, catering to students from absolute beginners to native speakers. We teach the language in the context of common tasks and situations so it is immediately useful and memorable. Tandem programs, community interaction, and opportunities to study abroad enable real-world communication from the start. We also introduce you to Spanish and Latin American customs, traditions, writing, and film, to enhance your cultural awareness and sense of global citizenship.
Advanced courses focus on particular aspects of language or culture — from translation to the Latin American novel and Spanish film — and explore questions surrounding gender, colonialism, modernization, and separatism. From “Despacito” to Don Quijote, lyric poetry to urban graffiti, and Che Guevara to Pablo Picasso, we offer you new ways of seeing the world and situating yourself in it.
A Spanish degree teaches you about connection, communication, and community. It often pairs well with majors or minors in other languages, or with subjects such as International Relations, Political Science, Geography, History, Anthropology and more.
Experiential learning
Go Global allows you to study abroad, bringing course content to life with hands-on learning. You can experience Spanish language and culture by immersing yourself in a Spanish-speaking country or province for several weeks. UBC has study exchange agreements with 13 universities in Central and South America, and seven in Spain.
Campus features
The Department of French, Hispanic and Italian Studies offers free tutoring and educational support to students through the Learning Centre. The Department also hosts language conversation tables and cultural events through the Cultural Club, giving students a chance to further their exploration of language and culture outside of the classroom.
Send details
Why this program?
Join 500 million Spanish speakers worldwide by speaking the language of commerce, culture, passion, and politics.
Make an impact locally and abroad through real-world projects and hands-on learning.
Gain access to great works of Hispanic literature, art, cinema, music, fashion, and cuisine.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
SPAN 101 - Beginners' Spanish I
Fundamentals of the Spanish language; speaking and writing on everyday activities and future plans in the context of common tasks and situations, including interactive communication, grammatical explanations, and cultural awareness.
SPAN 102 - Beginners' Spanish II
Speaking and writing on past events, and expressing desires and wishes in the context of common situations, including interactive communication, grammatical explanations, and cultural awareness.
SPAN 221 - Introduction to Hispanic Literature
Major texts, authors, periods, and genres of Hispanic literature; key concepts, terminology, and practices of literary analysis that serve as a foundation for higher-level Spanish literature courses.
SPAN 201 - Intermediate Spanish I
Reviews the fundamentals of the Spanish language, and introduces more complex structures; listening, speaking, writing, and reading on a range of situations related to everyday life and Hispanic culture.
SPAN 202 - Intermediate Spanish II
Expands on the fundamentals of the Spanish language, and presents more complex structures in a variety of tenses and modes; interacting through discussions and gaining cultural awareness through literature and film.
SPAN 222 - Introduction to Hispanic Culture
Media, figures, periods, and genres of Hispanic culture; key concepts, theories, and practices of cultural analysis that serve as a foundation for higher-level Spanish culture courses.
SPAN 358 - Divergent Visions: Peninsular Literature and Culture since 1700
Modern Spanish literature and culture, from Empire to the European Union. Includes Romanticism, Modernism, Republicanism, and Separatism.
SPAN 365 - Modern Magics: Spanish-American Literature and Culture since the 1820s
Literary engagements with modernity in the Spanish Americas, from the 1820's to the present. Includes civilization, progress, politicization, and violence.
SPAN 301 - Advanced Spanish I
Advanced grammar structures in context, lexical repertoire, fluency and cultural awareness to broaden and develop language skills.
SPAN 302 - Advanced Spanish II
Advanced grammar structures in context; students expand lexical repertoire, and gain fluency and flexibility as they deepen cultural awareness through reading, listening, discussion, and writing.
SPAN 364 - Colonial Encounters in Spanish-American Literature and Culture
Spanish colonialism in the Americas from the Conquest to the 1820's and the dawn of Independence. Includes coloniality, hybridity, subalternity, and autonomy.
SPAN 403 - History of the Spanish Language
Major features of the development of the Spanish language, from its origins to the present. Includes the history of Spanish phonetics, phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, and dialectology.
SPAN 430 - Modernization and Autonomy: Topics in Peninsular Literature and Culture since the 18th Century
Selected areas of study relating to the literature and culture of modern Spain. Consult the Department for this year's offerings.
SPAN 490 - Peoples and Nations: Topics in Twentieth- and Twenty-First Century Spanish-American Culture
Selected areas of study relating to modern and/or contemporary Spanish America. Consult the Department for this year's offerings.
SPAN 404 - From World to Screen: Topics in Hispanic Cinema
Selected areas of study relating to Hispanic Cinema. Consult the Department for this year's offerings.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
View larger image
UBC's Buchanan Buildings
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
From Hispanic film screenings to tapas tasting nights, there are plenty of opportunities for you to deepen your cultural awareness and linguistic skills through events organized by the Department and by student clubs and associations. The Spanish program also has links with many top-ranked programs across Canada, the Americas, and Europe, paving the way for further collaboration.
Find out more
Your future
Our graduates are equipped for any field in which connection and internationalism count: from business to law, education to development work, journalism to public relations, and diplomacy to tourism. You’ll develop transferable skills that can be applied to a variety of contexts, including language proficiency, cultural awareness, international and intercultural know-how, critical thinking and problem solving, and research and communication skills.
Program graduates
Program Manager, Cross-Cultural Solutions
Law School Student, UCLA School of Law
View larger image
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Professor Schreyer, a linguist and anthropologist who helped develop Superman's mother tongue
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC