Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/speech-sciences/

Speech Sciences
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Speech Sciences is an interdisciplinary program with courses from Linguistics, Psychology, and the School of Audiology and Speech Sciences. You'll study research methods, language structure, child development and language acquisition, anatomy and physiology, experimental psychology, and instrumental phonetics.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The Speech Sciences program is designed to prepare you for graduate work in speech-language pathology or audiology. The program has an interdisciplinary structure administered by the Linguistics Department, with courses from Linguistics, Psychology, and the School of Audiology and Speech Sciences.
You will study research methods, language structure, child development and language acquisition, anatomy and physiology, experimental psychology, and instrumental phonetics. Coursework focusses on normal language. Work on language disorders is not generally undertaken until the graduate program.
Campus features
As an undergraduate student in the Speech Sciences program, you’ll have an opportunity to explore and gain experience in various research labs housed at the Faculty of Medicine’s School of Audiology and Speech Sciences, including the Adult Language Processing and Disorders Lab and the Child Language Lab.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
LING 100 - Introduction to Language and Linguistics
Study of language as a universal and uniquely human cognitive system: What universals do all languages share and how do languages differ? An investigation of sound systems, word-building, grammatical principles, language change, dialect variation, language acquisition, neurolinguistics. Recommended but not required for an honours, major, or minor in linquistics or speech sciences.
PSYC 101 - Introduction to Biological and Cognitive Psychology
Introduction to Methods and Statistics, Biopsychology, Learning, Perception, Memory, and Cognition.
PSYC 102 - Introduction to Biological and Cognitive Psychology
Introduction to Methods and Statistics, Biopsychology, Learning, Perception, Memory, and Cognition.
LING 200 - Linguistic Theory and Analysis I
Introduction to phonetics and phonology; training in the identification and production of speech sounds; principles and methods for describing and writing the sound system of a language; phonological theory with reference to selected languages; the interface between phonology and morphology. Analytical practice and seminar discussion.
LING 201 - Linguistic Theory and Analysis II
Introduction to grammatical analysis; morphology, syntax, semantics; synchronic analysis and description with illustrations from various languages. Analytical practice and seminar discussion.
LING 209 - Clinical Topics in Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences
Introduction to speech and hearing sciences, with emphasis on the clinical perspectives of audiology and speech pathology.
LING 222 - Language Acquisition
Audition and speech perception, phonological organization, word learning, syntax, and pragmatics.
STAT 203 - Statistical Methods
Organizing, displaying and summarizing data. Inference estimation and testing for elementary probability models. Not for credit towards a B.Sc. (Consult the Credit Exclusion list within the Faculty of Science section in the Calendar.)
LING 300 - Studies in Grammar
Introduction to syntactic analysis and theory, with emphasis on description and analysis of data from a wide variety of languages.
LING 311 - Studies in Phonology
Introduction to phonological analysis and theory, with a strong emphasis on description and analysis of data from a wide variety of languages.
LING 313 - Introduction to Linguistic Phonetics and Speech Science
The articulatory and acoustic properties of speech production and perception, including practice in phonetic transcription, instrumental recording, and the analysis of normal speech.
LING 314 - Instrumental Phonetics
Physiological and/or acoustic phonetics. Focus on experimental methods and analysis techniques. Topics may include: source-filter theory; spectral and temporal acoustic analysis, inter-articulator timing and motor coordination.
LING 333 - Research Methods for Linguistics
Research methods used in linguistics and speech science. Emphasis on scientific reasoning, critical thinking, experimental design, and the ethics and methods of linguistic data-collection.
LING 447 - Topics in Linguistics
A capstone course for Linguistics and Speech Sciences majors, normally taken after three years of study.  Individual sections will differ substantially; see online Course List for detailed descriptions and prerequisites. May be repeated for credit when content is different.
LING 451 - Acquisition of Phonology
Development of the phonological system in typical first language acquisition from the perspective of diverse linguistic topics. Phonetic transcription of child speech.
LING 452 - Acquisition of Syntax
Central issues in the first language acquisition of syntax, including early lexical and semantic development, acquisition of morphology, and syntactic development (e.g., word order, questions).
AUDI 402 - Neuroanatomy for Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology
AUDI 403 - Introduction to Neurolinguistics
Your future
Career opportunities vary widely across a range of fields including audiology, speech-language pathology, occupational therapy, physiotherapy, public health, computational linguistics, communications, education, and others.
There are many career paths that can combine your academics, skills, and experience with your different interests, including:
Art or Music therapist
Artificial intelligence designer
Audiologist
Audiometric technician
Communication disorders assistant
Communications manager
Education consultant
English-as-a-second-language teacher
Human resources specialist
Speech pathologist
Careers with Speech Sciences
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Meet Professor Schreyer, a linguist and anthropologist who helped develop Superman's mother tongue
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC