Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/statimc-language-fluency/

St’át’imc Language Fluency
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Visit program website
Achieve an advanced proficiency in the St’át’imc language. This degree is an innovative collaboration between communities, Nicola Valley Institute of Technology (NVIT), En’owkin Centre, and UBC Okanagan to sustain and revitalize language traditions, restore language competence, and protect the knowledge of Indigenous communities.
Why this program?
Enjoy a fully immersive approach to learning, with community language experts in the classrooms.
Connect with other Indigenous students, get familiar with the campus, engage with the Indigenous Programs and Services staff, and stay on campus in residence.
Take part in an internship with a relevant community partner as well as a personal language project as a capstone for the degree.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences
Degree:
Bachelor of St’át’imc Language Fluency
Length
2 yrs
Co-op
No
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
To apply to the Bachelor of St’át’imc Language Fluency at UBC Okanagan, you must first have completed the St’át’imc Language diploma at NVIT. The diploma will be your first two years of study, with the Bachelor of St’át’imc Language Fluency forming the final two.
The St’át’imc Language Fluency degree is designed so you reach a profound knowledge of the language. Over the course of the program, you’ll achieve an advanced level of written and oral proficiency through classes that tackle language skills, instructional capacity, Indigenous ways of knowing, and more.
As well as becoming a proficient speaker, you’ll learn about multiple ways to contribute to the language’s recovery and revitalization efforts in your communities.
The degree begins with a summer transition course to ensure you successfully settle in to UBC Okanagan and the university environment. During this course, you’ll connect with other Indigenous students, learn about the campus programs and services available to you, and stay on campus in a UBC residence.
Experiential learning and research
The St’át’imc Language Fluency program is fully immersive, with research, internship, and community engagement opportunities embedded in the curriculum.
In the final year of your degree, you’ll undertake an internship with a relevant community partner, and also complete a personal language project. These opportunities will allow you to explore your own interests in your language learning, and practice in a context that is meaningful to you personally.
You’ll also have the chance to pursue innovative and original research as part of the
Undergraduate Research Awards
.
Send details
Why this program?
Enjoy a fully immersive approach to learning, with community language experts in the classrooms.
Connect with other Indigenous students, get familiar with the campus, engage with the Indigenous Programs and Services staff, and stay on campus in residence.
Take part in an internship with a relevant community partner as well as a personal language project as a capstone for the degree.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
EDUC 104 - Introduction to Academic Pedagogy: An Aboriginal Perspective
Using an Aboriginal approach to the cycle of learning, this developmental course provides an opportunity for first-year students to learn essential skills needed for academic success.
INLG 281 - Sounds of Endangered Languages: Conservation and Revitalization
Development of skills in the perception and transcription of speech sounds in endangered languages, focusing on the diversity within B.C. Indigenous languages. Capacity-building techniques for digital recording, editing, analysis, and archiving; guided by community-based ethical protocols and conservation/revitalization goals. Restricted to students in the Indigenous language fluency degrees.
STMC 333 - Language Practice and Pedagogy: Traditional Ecological Knowledge
Intensive language immersion class focused on the application of traditional ecological knowledge (TEK), in and through practice. The language of instruction is St'át'imcets. May be offered on the land. Restricted to students in the Bachelor of St'át'imc Language Fluency program.
Your future
You’ll graduate from the St’át’imc Language Fluency program ready for a career in a number of fields, including:
Indigenous outreach
Careers within social services
College and other vocational instructors
Indigenous affairs officer, or government policy work
Research consultant
Language assessor or literacy coach
Community interpreter or translator
Women and family support
Youth wellness
Jobs in natural resources using traditional ecological knowledge
Teacher/educator
Related programs
Ready to be a UBC student?
Apply now