Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/sustainability/

Sustainability
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Learn how to critically assess and propose solutions to contemporary sustainability challenges, such as climate change, pollution, and social and economic inequality. You'll gain a diverse set of skills through both foundational knowledge and hands-on, community-based learning.
Why this program?
Participate in experiential learning activities unique to UBC Okanagan's campus, a location with ready-made access to urban, agricultural, and wilderness environments that are real-world labs
Gain skills and knowledge that will ensure you have the expertise vital to navigate our complex future, and equip you for you career
Learn from award-winning faculty and benefit from contributing from UBC's world-class research
Study one of the few sustainability degrees in Canada
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Sustainability
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Now more than ever, socially conscious citizens with a diverse set of knowledge and abilities are in high demand. As one of the few sustainability degrees in Canada, UBC Okanagan’s Bachelor of Sustainability will develop your skills and knowledge to enable you to take action to solve sustainability problems at both a local and global scale.
The Sustainability program shapes your abilities an experiences through interdisciplinary course content, as well as allowing you to focus on select concentrations to develop your knowledge.
Your concentrations
The Bachelor of Sustainability combines a broad interdisciplinary approach, with focused concentrations that advance your skills to bring about positive change. You will learn within select topics to develop the expertise to enable you to take action and solve problems at local to global scales.
You can chose from the following concentrations:
Environmental Analytics
Environmental Conservation and Management
Environmental Humanities
Green Chemistry
All students take a set of core Sustainability courses along with courses specific to their concentration. Visit the Academic Calendar to see your courses for the
Environmental Analytics
,
Environmental Conservation and Management,
Environmental Humanities
, and
Green Chemistry
concentrations.
Experiential learning and research
As a Bachelor of Sustainability student, you’ll find your degree is fully immersive, with research and community engagement opportunities imbedded in the curriculum.
You’ll take part in foundational learning alongside hands-on and community-based study. Because UBC Okanagan is located in a unique environment, you’ll have access to urban, agricultural, and wilderness environments that will become your real-world labs. Your learning experience will equip you with key skills to tackle issues including climate change, pollution, and social and economic inequality.
Our close-knit campus allows you to work together with faculty to conduct or assist with research projects. You will learn from award-winning faculty and benefit from being part of UBC’s world-class research. You can also choose to pursue innovative and original research as part of the
Undergraduate Research Awards
.
Send details
Why this program?
Participate in experiential learning activities unique to UBC Okanagan's campus, a location with ready-made access to urban, agricultural, and wilderness environments that are real-world labs
Gain skills and knowledge that will ensure you have the expertise vital to navigate our complex future, and equip you for you career
Learn from award-winning faculty and benefit from contributing from UBC's world-class research
Study one of the few sustainability degrees in Canada
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
ENGL 112 - Studies in Composition
Practice-based approach to writing at the university level. Emphasis is placed on the processes of research-based writing.
INDG 102 - Introduction to Indigeneity: Ways of Knowing
Introduces students to the concept of Indigenous Knowledge through a holistic and relational approach to land and people. Provides a foundation to key perspectives and traditions in the arts, health, social justice and governance.
SUST 100 - Sustainability: People, Place, and Process
The concept of sustainability and its relationship to people and communities, the management and conservation of natural resources, land and food systems, and the built environment. Guest speakers and in-class discussions covering topics which address local and global contexts. May include community service learning project.
SUST 104 - Introduction to Environmental Humanities
Explores the contribution of historical, philosophical, anthropological, and literary scholarship to elucidation and mitigation of a specific environmental issue. Restricted to students in the Bachelor of Sustainability program.
SUST 200 - Application, Practice and Management Approaches
Concepts of governance, natural resource management, and economy-environment connections. Restricted to students in the Bachelor of Sustainability program.
SUST 202 - Community Service Learning
Apply sustainability learning and knowledge to the broader community through a self-directed project involving at least 30 hours of community service. Restricted to students in the Bachelor of Sustainability program.
SUST 204 - Creative Communication and Engagement
Using experiential and collaborative learning, students of sustainability improve their communication skills as speakers, listeners, collaborators, leaders and problem solvers.
SUST 205 - Sustainability Economics
Explores and contrasts approaches and tools from mainstream economics and heterodox economics that may contribute to sustainability decision making. Identification and evaluation of trade-offs associated with choices made in the name of sustainability. Restricted to students in the Bachelor of Sustainability program.
SUST 300 - Achieving Sustainability at the Regional Scale
Advanced analysis of regional-scale challenges and solutions to sustainability in developed and developing nations. Ecosystem services and relationships to human well-being. Social and ecological resilience of landscapes.
SUST 301 - Methods in Solving Wicked Problems
Interdisciplinary methods to address challenges of finding sustainable solutions to multi-scale, multi-stakeholder problems that require systems-level approaches. We begin with the premise that these problems are 'wicked' problems that have no single, correct solution, and where any solution is intertwined with issues of human ethics, values, and social equity. Restricted to students in the Bachelor of Sustainability program.
SUST 302 - Community Service Learning
Apply sustainability learning and knowledge to the broader community through a self-directed project involving at least 30 hours of community service.  Development of personal sustainability goals. Restricted to students in the Bachelor of Sustainability program.
SUST 400 - Capstone Project in Sustainability
Applied project in sustainability studies. May follow a traditional academic research model or may be community-based. May be undertaken in partnership with external organizations as relevant. Restricted to students in the Bachelor of Sustainability program.
SUST 402 - Community Service Learning
Apply sustainability learning and knowledge to the broader community through a self-directed project involving at least 30 hours of community service.  Refine personal sustainability goals. Work with diverse stakeholders to attain a common objective. Restricted to students in the Bachelor of Sustainability program.
View larger image
UBC's Okanagan campus
Life at UBC's Okanagan campus
UBC’s Okanagan campus is an innovative hub for research and learning nestled in the hills of Kelowna, British Columbia.

Kelowna is the largest city in the Okanagan Valley. It features lush vineyards, a network of rivers and lakes, and some of Canada’s largest ski resorts. It’s also home to hundreds of hiking trails, a thriving arts and cultural district, authentic farm-to-table dining, several championship golf courses, and a booming tech scene.
Find out more
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Sustainability
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL or HL, or IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
A minimum of one of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Academically strong candidates missing IB Math may be considered on a case-by-case basis
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in Grade 11 and Grade 12.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Social Studies
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Choosing what to study
Read admissions blog post
Programs spotlight: Earth, environment, and sustainability
Read admissions blog post
Apply now