Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/sustainable-agriculture-environment/

Sustainable Agriculture and Environment
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Learn how to produce food in a way that protects our soils, water, and air, how to manage biodiversity and habitat for the organisms we rely on to help us grow our food, and how to grow food in urban environments. This program will prime you for a professional career in shaping a more sustainable, food-secure future.
Why this program?
Gain challenging, hands-on, and practical experience
Tackle a range of environmental challenges within a single program
Work toward a professional designation in your chosen field
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Land and Food Systems
Degree:
Bachelor of Science in Applied Biology
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
In the Sustainable Agriculture and Environment program, you’ll apply your thinking to a range of environmental challenges, including sustainable crop production, food security, biodiversity, soil and water resources management, and climate change. You can tailor your studies to focus on your particular interests too – whether they’re in agricultural production, integrated agro-ecosystem management, or plant or soil science.
Experiential learning and research
You’ll have a chance to integrate your classroom learning with real-world experience at the Centre for Sustainable Food Systems at the UBC Farm, our rooftop garden, and community gardens across the city. You’ll also have opportunities to develop your research skills and build out your competencies through research experiences, internships and practicums, co-ops, and job placements.
Campus features
The Centre for Sustainable Food Systems at UBC Farm is an on-campus living laboratory for experiential learning. The UBC Farm is located on the Vancouver campus – virtually uniquely among North America research universities – and offers a wide range of interdisciplinary learning, research, and community programs.
Centre for Sustainable Food Systems
Send details
Why this program?
Gain challenging, hands-on, and practical experience
Tackle a range of environmental challenges within a single program
Work toward a professional designation in your chosen field
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
LFS 100 - Introduction to Land, Food and Community
Orientation to the programs, learning environment and core values of the Faculty of Land and Food Systems; career programs; survey of professional opportunities and requirements.
LFS 150 - Scholarly Writing and Argumentation in Land and Food Systems
Communicating concepts of food systems and links to human and environmental health through writing, elements of argumentation, evaluating evidence, and searching for and citing references to back up claims; small-class experience. Enrolment limited to LFS students with first year status and a Language Proficiency Index (LPI) of 4 or equivalent.
BIOL 112 - Biology of the Cell
The principles of cellular and molecular biology using bacterial and eukaryotic examples.
CHEM 121 - Structure and Bonding in Chemistry
Fundamentals of bonding theories and structural chemistry, with applications relevant to modern society.
LFS 250 - Land, Food and Community I: Introduction to Food Systems and Sustainability
Managed systems and concepts of sustainability; economic, ecological and social components; managed landscapes, agri-food systems, and communities; urban and rural systems; the land, food, nutrition and human health continuum.
APBI 200 - Introduction to Soil Science
Physical, chemical and biological properties of soils; soil formation, classification, use and conservation. There are no prerequisites for this course, but background in Biology 12, Chemistry 12, and Physics 12 (or first-year university-level) is strongly advised.
APBI 210 - Vascular Plants
A comparative study of pteridophytes, gymnosperms and angiosperms, integrating form, function, and ecology.
APBI 244 - Atmospheric Environments
Physical principles underlying weather and climates. Thermal, moisture and wind climates from the scale of plants and animals to the globe. Daily weather systems and climate change.
APBI 260 - Agroecology I: Introduction to principles and techniques
Biophysical and socioeconomic factors affecting systems management and production in selected agroecosystems.
LFS 350 - Land, Food, and Community II: Principles and Practice of Community Food Security
Project-based application of the principles and processes of community food security. Emphasis on developing skills required to address economic, ecological, social, and technological components of managed landscapes, agri-food systems, and communities comprising the land, food, nutrition and health continuum.
APBI 327 - Introduction to Entomology
A survey of the structure, classification and biology of insects; ecology and life-histories of insects; insect-plant relations.
APBI 342 - Soil Biology
The diversity of soil organisms (bacteria, protozoa, fungi, animals, plants) in natural and managed ecosystems; roles in primary production, nutrient cycling, decomposition and reclamation; interactions between soil organisms; responses to environmental change.
ECON 310 - Principles of Microeconomics
The scope of this course is approximately the same as that of ECON101. The course is intended for upper-level students only.
APBI 328 - Weed Science
Importance, identification, dissemination and biology of weeds; preventive, cultural, biological and chemical methods of control.
APBI 426 - Plant-Microbe Interactions
Biology and physiology of selected plant-microbe relationships. Impacts of plant-microbe relationships on society.
APBI 402 - Sustainable Soil Management
Application of fundamental, unifying, soil science principles in sustainable ecosystem management.
APBI 442 - Wine Grape and Berry Biology
Grapevine genetics, morphology, and physiology and major biological features of other important berry crops for British Columbia such as blueberry, cranberry, and raspberry.
APBI 495 - Principles of Wildlife Management in Forests and Agricultural Environments
Impacts of wildlife on crop productivity in temperate and tropical environments, the resiliency of wildlife populations to conventional control methodology, adoption of innovative methods to reduce crop damage, and the impact of introduced species on native fauna.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
Your future
Graduates from the Sustainable Agriculture and Environment program are equipped to pursue a wide range of careers and may go on to earn any of the following professional designations:
Professional Agrologist with the BC Institute of Agrologists (BCIA)
Registered Professional Biologist with the College of Applied Biology
Applied Biology Technician with the College of Applied Biology
Professional Geoscientist with Engineers and Geoscientists of BC
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Applied Biology
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics (may be waived with grades of 5 in IB Chemistry and in your IB Mathematics course)
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Social Studies
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Carolina, a biology student who has taken her education around the world
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC