Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/united-states-studies/

United States Studies
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
This program will significantly increase your understanding of the United States and its institutions and policies. Your coursework will span topics in economics, political science, history, and more.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The influence of the United States is felt all over the world, and perhaps nowhere more than in Canada.  With the U.S. so close geographically and economically, it is essential that Canadians better understand their neighbour.
The U.S. Studies program offers an exciting interdisciplinary program through the collaboration of the departments of Political Science, Economics, and History. You will combine coursework across departments and gain an in depth understanding of U.S. politics, economics, and history. You will take courses in areas as diverse as the Presidency, African-American history, and American foreign policy.
The program will provide Canadian government, corporations, and other institutions with graduates who have an excellent understanding of the U.S. and Canada-U.S. relations, and allow them to respond to employment opportunities across North America.
Campus features
Although the UBC Library is not an official depository library for the U.S. federal government, it possesses a very significant collection of official U.S. publications in print, digital and microformat.
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
ECON 101 - Principles of Microeconomics
Elements of theory and of Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of markets and market behaviour, prices and costs, exchange and trade, competition and monopoly, distribution of income.
ECON 102 - Principles of Macroeconomics
Elements of theory and of Canadian policy and institutions concerning the economics of growth and business cycles, national income accounting, interest and exchange rates, money and banking, the balance of trade.
POLI 100 - Introduction to Politics
Political issues and case studies, drawn from Canadian and international contexts, will be used to introduce students to central debates and concepts of politics and political analysis.
HIST 108 - Global History of Capitalism
The history of capitalism in its global dimension from the beginnings to the age of industrialization.  An investigation of economies - in both their practices and cultures - around the world and across the ages from ancient times to the modern era.
HIST 237 - History of the United States
Survey from colonial period to present examining political system, slavery, Civil War, race relations and civil rights, westward expansion, industrialization, feminism, expanding international presence, Cold War, and modern culture.
POLI 220 - Introduction to Comparative Politics
A comparative analysis of foreign governments. Specific countries to be covered will vary according to section; consult the brochure issued by the Department.
HIST 260 - Science and Society in the Contemporary World
An introduction to the historical development, conceptual foundations, and cultural significance of contemporary science. Themes will vary from year to year.
ECON 210 - Microeconomic Policy
A survey of policy issues, such as regulation, taxation, environmental and resource policy, health care, education and income distribution.  May not be taken for credit by students with fourth-year standing.
ECON 255 - Understanding Globalization
Social and economic implications for both rich and poor countries of lowered barriers to the international flows of information, capital, labour and goods.  May not be taken for credit by students with fourth-year standing.
POLI 377 - Nuclear Weapons and Arms Control
Evolution and contemporary significance of nuclear weapons and arms control policy and technology from the perspective of the physical and life sciences and the social sciences and humanities.
HIST 335 - From Slavery to Citizenship and Beyond: African-American History, 1850 to the Present
The history of African-Americans from the Civil War and emancipation through the present. Topics include the "Jim Crow" system; the Harlem Renaissance; the Civil Rights Movement; and the current economic and political status of Americans of African ancestry.
ECON 345 - Money and Banking
Financial markets and financial institutions in theory and practice; structure and development of the Canadian financial system; development and theory of the regulation of the financial system; process of monetary control; theory and history of central banking and monetary policy.
HIST 331 - The United States, 1865-1900: Labour, Race, Gender, and Empire
The complicated political, economic and social history of the United States in the three decades following the Civil War.
POLI 462 - International Relations Theory
This seminar examines some of the major theoretical approaches to the study of international relations. For specific content in a given year, consult the departmental website.
HIST 409 - U.S. Foreign Relations since 1945
U.S. foreign policy and international history.  Political, economic, and cultural relationships between the United States and other peoples, organizations, and states worldwide.
ECON 466 - The Economics of Government Regulation of Business
Normative and positive theories of government regulation of business. Topics include natural monopoly, socially optimal monopoly pricing, regulation of multi-firm industries, competition policy. Selected empirical studies.
HIST 456 - Race in the Americas
Legacies of African, European, and Asian migrations, and colonial encounters with indigenous peoples in the Americas. Includes the creation of racial categories, the making of transnational and transracial families, and the emergence of race-based social and cultural movements.
Your future
Your career opportunities will vary widely across a range of fields including government, non-profit, business, law, journalism, tourism, education, and others.
There are many career paths that can combine your academics, skills, and experience with your different interests.
Careers with United States Studies
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Altay, a UBC student who competed at the World Model UN in Singapore
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC