Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/urban-forestry/

Urban Forestry
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Develop your passion for the urban environment as you learn more about sustainability, green space planning, and nature in the city. Urban Forestry is the first undergraduate degree in Canada dedicated to the planning and management of urban green spaces.
Why this program?
Learn from professionals from the Faculty of Forestry and the School of Architecture and Landscape Architecture
Meet practitioners in arboriculture, landscape architecture, urban planning, engineering, and nursery operations
Choose to minor in Urban Greenspace Management or Landscape and Recreation Planning
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Forestry
Degree:
Bachelor of Urban Forestry
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
If you’re interested in learning about urban ecology, sustainability planning, recreation, human well-being, and forest sciences and management, Urban Forestry could be for you. Taught in collaboration with the School of Architecture and Landscape Architecture, this Faculty of Forestry degree teaches important and transferable skills related to:
Smart data.
Modelling and visualization.
Planning and design methods.
Community engagement and communications.
Policy, economics, and legal and professional practice.
Experiential learning and research
As an Urban Forestry student, you’ll:
Participate in field courses in the Vancouver area.
Complete international case studies based on UBC research and the University’s professional networks in Asia, Europe, and North and South America.
Campus features
Located near Pacific Spirit Regional Park, UBC’s Vancouver campus is home to
UBC Botanical Garden
and the award-winning
Forest Sciences Centre
, which offers wireless study space, high-tech classrooms, and labs equipped with the latest technology.
The Faculty of Forestry also has two major
research forests
in British Columbia, and jointly manages a third, altogether totalling 25,000 hectares or more than 60,000 acres.
Send details
Why this program?
Learn from professionals from the Faculty of Forestry and the School of Architecture and Landscape Architecture
Meet practitioners in arboriculture, landscape architecture, urban planning, engineering, and nursery operations
Choose to minor in Urban Greenspace Management or Landscape and Recreation Planning
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
UFOR 100 - Greening the City
Roles played by urban forestry and greenspace systems in a rapidly changing world; topics include urban ecology, urban forest conservation, urban forest management, climate change, society and human well-being, design and planning, urban/rural interface issues, and urban forest policy.
CONS 200 - Foundations of Conservation
Conceptual foundations of conservation; means of conserving nature and natural resources.
APBI 200 - Introduction to Soil Science
Physical, chemical and biological properties of soils; soil formation, classification, use and conservation. There are no prerequisites for this course, but background in Biology 12, Chemistry 12, and Physics 12 (or first-year university-level) is strongly advised.
SOCI 101 - Social Interaction and Culture
Culture, identity, social interaction, relationships and socialization.
UFOR 200 - Urban Forests and Well-Being
Basic relationships between urban residents’ mental and physical well-being and their urban forest environment.
ENDS 221 - Sustainability by Design
Introduction to interactions between human and natural urban systems using local and international examples of successful sustainable community designs.
CONS 210 - Visualizing Climate Change
Introduction to climate change through the lens of local landscapes and future scenarios, using visual media to communicate the underlying science & psychology, and engage communities in local climate change solutions.
FRST 200 - Forest Plant Biology I
The structure, diversity and development of trees and other plants, with emphasis on the angiosperms.
CONS 481 - Conservation Planning and Wildland Recreation
Theory and tools needed for the selection and design of protected areas, the designation of land use types, and the management and conservation of wildland recreation resources.
FRST 307 - Biotic Disturbances
Concepts of disturbance ecology with special reference to insects and diseases in the forests of British Columbia; forest health problems in the biogeoclamatic zones of BC; present management strategies and future potentials in a scenario of climate change.
FRST 443 - Remote Sensing for Ecosystem Management
Basic biological concepts related to interpretation of remote sensing data for land management, including the use of films and filters, and interpretation of air photographs, and other imagery.
UFOR 300 - Arboriculture Principles and Practice
Sustainable practice within the arboricultural discipline with emphasis on a comprehensive understanding of techniques and equipment used in a range of arboricultural operations.
UFOR 400 - Urban Forestry Field School
Development of field skills, professional judgment, critical reflection, and integration of theory, practice, and policy. Offered at Malcolm Knapp Research Forest over a 7-day period in April.
CONS 340 - Introduction to Geographic Information Systems for Forestry and Conservation
Introduction to principles, practice and context of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) applied to forest management and natural resource conservation issues. Priority enrolment to students in the Faculty of Forestry.
LARC 444 - Green Network Planning
Theory and methods of long-range green space planning for urban areas.
UFOR 403 - Ecological Restoration
Ecological principles relevant to restoration of ecosystems are applied to the restoration of several types of ecosystems.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
View larger image
UBC Forest Sciences Centre
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Surrounded by 750 hectares of forest, UBC offers the chance to study in a forested environment. Learn from award-winning faculty members in the nature-inspired Forest Sciences Centre, whose main atrium and study area feature giant live plants and a large skylight supported by massive wood beams. As a Faculty of Forestry student, you'll also have access to two research forests for field schools and other learning opportunities.
Find out more
Your future
As an Urban Forestry graduate, you’ll have the knowledge and skills required to meet the growing demand for urban forest managers and urban forest planners. Apply what you’ve learned to help manage urban forests, make cities more livable, and make informed city planning decisions. Pursue a career as a city forester, a municipal arborist, a green infrastructure planner, a parks and recreation manager, or an urban forestry consultant.
UBC stories
“The best part of Urban Forestry is the tight-knit community between the professors and the students. Having such a small program has enabled room for these connections that I don’t think you get in many programs.”
Elliot Bellis, Student
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Urban Forestry
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL. (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable.)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry
Grade 11 Biology (recommended) or Physics
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Biology or Physics requirements listed above are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Biology, Chemistry and/or Physics courses. For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in Grade 11 and Grade 12.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences: Biology 11 or IB Biology HL or SL is strongly recommended.
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Degree Spotlight: Urban Forestry
Read admissions blog post
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC