Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/urbanstudies/

Urban Studies
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Now, more than ever, we need people who are trained to understand and shape urbanization from the public, private, and civic sectors. Urban Studies provides a comprehensive conceptual and applied foundation for those who seek to shape cities. Students graduate with the fundamental tools needed to influence urban development.
Why this program?
Benefit from a partnership between Urban Planning and Geography programs that are among Canada’s most respected.
Learn alongside community members and professionals involved with shaping the future of Vancouver, forging professional relationships, and networks.
Gain expertise in five areas of focus: environment, technology, indigeneity, globalization, and social equity.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculties:
Faculty of Applied Science (Engineering), Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Over the next century, all of the world’s net population growth will take place in urban regions, and nearly every aspect of economic, social, political, technological, and environmental change is now urbanized.
Urban Studies provides a comprehensive conceptual and applied foundation for those who seek to shape cities. Urban Studies gives students broad and deep knowledge of the historical and intellectual threads of urbanization throughout the world while also providing students with the fundamental tools needed to influence urban development.
Whether students choose to specialize in technical data analysis, development finance strategies, dialogue and engagement practices, or political and policy-oriented communication, urban studies students are prepared to critically integrate specific urban interventions with broader efforts to address complex societal challenges.
Experiential learning and research
Students will gain relevant professional experience through community engagement projects in several courses and a community-engaged capstone, as well as optional co-op experiences.
Campus features
The UBC Vancouver campus is a living lab for urban studies. The campus is embedded in the deeply globalized dynamics of Vancouver and the UBC campus itself is a major hub of development within the Vancouver region.
Send details
Why this program?
Benefit from a partnership between Urban Planning and Geography programs that are among Canada’s most respected.
Learn alongside community members and professionals involved with shaping the future of Vancouver, forging professional relationships, and networks.
Gain expertise in five areas of focus: environment, technology, indigeneity, globalization, and social equity.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
GEOG 250 - Cities
An interdisciplinary introduction to the city in the context of contemporary globalization. Analysis of urban patterns and processes from the theoretical perspectives of various disciplines and methodologies.
PLAN 211 - City-Making: A Global Perspective
Contemporary city development trends, policies, and practices across the globe as explored against the backdrop of culture and technology. Includes hands-on learning.
PLAN 231 - Methods of Community Engagement
Examination of various approaches to hands-on engagement with urban communities while examining the meaning of public, community, and participation.
PLAN 221 - City Visuals
An exploratory journey through the vast world of visualizing the city and ways of representing the built environment, including how to both interpret and use visualizations to read the city.
GEOS 270 - Geographic Information Science
Computer-based graphical methods of data input and analysis. Emphasis on data visualization techniques such as cartographic modelling and exploratory data analysis.
PLAN 331 - The Just City in a Divided World
Considers the city as a terrain for the manifestation and mediation of social justice. Explores how the allocation of land, goods, and services in cities (re)produces social stratification, and how institutions and civil society negotiate just and unjust outcomes.
GEOG 364 - Globalization, Cities, and Regions
Forms of economic development; changing location of economic activities and functions; implications for government and politics; local strategies for growth and equity.
GEOG 371 - Research Strategies in Geography
Formulating a research problem and selecting an appropriate research strategy. Research strategies range from social scientific survey methods to ethnography. Priority enrolment for honours and major students in Geography.
PLAN 361 - Community Planning in a World of Diversity
Examination of how the diverse, multicultural, and cosmopolitan aspects of cities create challenges and opportunities for community planning.
GEOG 351 - Urban Environmental Politics
Effects of urbanization and global environmental change on the geographies of cities across the world. Specific focus on urban environmental justice and inequality.
PLAN 321 - Indigeneity and the City
Place-based exploration of the multiple, complex and contested ways urban Indigeneity is constituted in Canada today, with opportunities for field trips and hands-on learning.
PLAN 351 - Green Cities
The key social and technological challenges, contradictions, and opportunities in planning for ecologically sound urbanization.
GEOG 350 - Urban Worlds
City systems and theories of urban location; internal spatial structure of the city; commercial and industrial location; social areas; neighbourhood and land use change; urban trends and public policy.
GEOG 395 - Culture, Nature, and Coloniality in Latin America
Socio-ecologies in 1491; Spanish colonialism and biological imperialism; contemporary coloniality and neoliberalism; and social movements.
GEOG 451 - Urban Studies Capstone I
Formulation of key elements of urban studies theory, concepts, and methods to a community-engaged urban challenge.
PLAN 452 - Urban Studies Capstone II
Application of key elements of urban studies theory, concepts, and methods to a community-engaged urban challenge.
View larger image
Geography building
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Urban Studies is designed around a “community of peers” model meant to provide students with a robust sense of community. This community is developed by using Vancouver as a living laboratory to specifically address the questions of how sustainable, healthy, inclusive, and connected communities have been and will be developed and planned.
Find out more
Your future
Professional  roles of graduates span a range of sectors, including (but not limited to):
Urban and regional planning
Politics and government
Research and consulting
Real estate and development
Environmental design
Social policy
Cultural development
Economic development
City administration
Community organization and engagement
Youth development
Social justice and environmental advocacy
After further training, graduates of urban studies also pursue careers in law, K-12 education, and business.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply now