Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/visual-arts/

Visual Arts (BFA)
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Train with the next generation of artists and cultural producers. Learn in cutting-edge facilities designed for traditional and digital-studio arts courses. The Visual Arts program offers a perfect balance of studio work and academic study, immersing you in hands-on critical and contemporary art education.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Find out more
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Faculty of Creative and Critical Studies
Degree:
Bachelor of Fine Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Visual Arts offers a critical and contemporary art education. There is an equal emphasis on academic study and studio work. You will acquire the foundational skills, techniques, and theories to work in two and three dimensions in a variety of media such as drawing, painting, sculpture, printmaking, photography, computer applications, and video. Art history courses, visiting artists’ presentations, and participation in art exhibitions also form integral parts of the program.
In addition, electives (12 credits in the third and fourth years) establish a strong critical foundation. NOTE: Bachelor of Fine Arts programs at UBC Okanagan require 126 credits, and may therefore take more than four years to complete.
Experiential learning and research
As part of a senior-level practicum, you are able to work and study in certain off-campus, art-related positions to receive credit toward your degree. In fourth year, you have the opportunity to complete advanced studio work, where you will propose and carry out an independent program of studio work in consultation with course directors and faculty advisors. Self-directed readings, writing projects, individual and group critiques, and participation in a final exhibition are required as part of this course. The Faculty of Creative and Critical Studies offers $2,500 undergraduate research awards that provide undergraduate students support to engage in research and creative activities over the summer months.
Senior-level practicum
Advanced studio work
Campus features
Facilities on UBC’s Okanagan campus include sculpture, photography, and printmaking studios, private studio space for senior-level students, and the Asper Centre for Artists’ Video, which houses state-of-the-art video and digital video editing equipment.
Studios available for sculpture, photography, printmaking, and more
What can you do with this major after graduation?
Your Visual Arts career options
Send details
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
VISA 102 - Drawing and Two-Dimensional Art Practices I
This foundation course will introduce the principles, practices, and concepts central to drawing and two-dimensional art.
VISA 104 - Three-Dimensional Art Practices I
This foundation course will introduce the materials, principles of form and space, and ideas in contemporary 3D art practices.
VISA 106 - Introduction to Digital Media I
Introduces digital media in contemporary art practice through photography, computer imaging, video, and other emerging digital technologies.
CCS 150 - Creative and Critical Art Theory I
Introduction to Western, Indigenous, and global art practices and theoretical discourses through the discussion and examination of forms, context, and ideas that contribute to cultural and contemporary art practices.
ARTH 101 - Art and Visual Cultures of the World I
Introduction to art and visual cultures of major world regions from prehistory to the early modern period.
CCS 250 - Creative and Critical Art Theory II
The continued study of Western, Indigenous, and global art practices and the theoretical discourses that contribute to the development of contemporary art.
VISA 215 - Painting I
Introduction to the materials and techniques of painting. Exploration of colour, surface, structure, and space. Students will be encouraged to search for personal imagery. Critical evaluation skills will be developed through individual and group critiques.
VISA 245 - Sculpture II
For the student who wishes to specialize in sculpture. Students will work with the concepts of space and materials to create personal solutions to problems set by the instructor.
VISA 261 - Video I
Introduction to organizational, technical, creative, and critical skills required in video production. Provides experience in all stages of the production process, including pre-production, production, and post-production. Considers a variety of approaches to video, such as artist videos, music videos, and television productions.
ARTH 203 - Global Contemporary Art
The contemporary global art scene with an emphasis on strategies for understanding the complexity of art production from 1985 to the present.
VISA 336 - Advanced Practice in Printmaking
Opportunity for students to continue their exploration of select media in printmaking (intaglio, relief, lithography, and screenprinting) within the context of contemporary art practice. Interdisciplinary crossover, evolving processes, and new materials will be encouraged.
VISA 371 - Digital Documentary Production
Theory and practice from the point of view of producer/writer/director. Course culminates in the creation of a short-form documentary.
VISA 382 - Advanced Practice in Media Arts
Advanced interdisciplinary course addressing the importance of technology-based approaches in contemporary art with emphasis placed upon the formation of an idea and the media most appropriate to its expression. No more than 12 credits in total will be granted for VISA 382, CULT 311, or any combination thereof.
ARTH 301 - Critical Viewing - Advanced Studies
Key ideas influencing art theory, art practice, and visual culture studies and topics relating to the emergence and globalization of Euro-American art ideologies and practices.
VISA 312 - Advanced Practice in Painting
Advanced studio course to increase the student's exploration and understanding of painting.
ARTH 403 - Global Surrealism
The development of Surrealism from its roots in 20th-century French thought to its global proliferation in film, literature, visual culture and contemporary theories.
VISA 482 - Advanced Art Practices I
Advanced studio course for fourth-year visual arts students. Students will propose and carry out an independent program of studio work in consultation with course directors and faculty advisors. Students will be intensively involved in artistic research and creation. Interdisciplinary activity will be encouraged. Self-directed readings, writing projects, individual and group critiques, and participation in a final exhibition will be required. Various professional practice topics will be covered.
VISA 400 - c Practicum
Students work and learn in certain off-campus, art-related positions to receive credit towards the B.F.A. degree. The department head, the program coordinator, and the course instructor will determine if the activity meets the criteria to qualify for credit.
VISA 460 - Special Topics in Visual Art
For senior students in Visual Art and other Creative Studies programs who wish to work on a special topic not normally covered in other Visual Arts courses. Topics vary. Not offered every year.
VISA 485 - Directed Studies
Students will investigate a visual arts practice and complete a significant studio-based project.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
Follow on Twitter
Your future
A UBC education will introduce you to people and ideas from around the world, open doors to new opportunities, and take you places you never imagined. You’ll graduate not only with expertise in your chosen field, but with the skills you need to continue growing, learning, and evolving with your career over time.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Visual Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Portfolio submission
Letter of intent (see
UBC Okanagan Calendar
)
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
10 things you never knew about UBC
Read admissions blog post
Meet Emmy, an Arts student who switched to Cultural Studies after a trip to New Zealand
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC