Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/visual-art-bfa/

Visual Art (BFA)
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
The BFA Visual Art program focuses on visual art practice, critical theory, and art history while providing an excellent foundation in a variety of fields involving the making and understanding of visual art and contemporary aesthetics.
This program is also offered at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Find out more
Why this program?
Learn in a studio-focused, intensive program within a world-renowned research university.
Enjoy a dynamic combination of hands-on, practical learning, and academic breadth.
Study within a small, active cohort, while having access to a sweeping range of other fields of study.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Fine Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
The study of Visual Art involves the exploration and practice of different artistic media, in combination with developing an understanding of visual culture. In the BFA Visual Art program you will explore art-making in at least four different media areas: digital art, photography (digital and analog), painting, drawing, sculpture, and print media. As you progress in the visual art program, you’ll focus more on your chosen areas and learn how to combine those areas to produce artworks that reflect your unique artistic style. Awareness of art’s history and visual culture will empower you to create and discuss visual objects – approaching everything from traditional painting to online media with a developed and critical eye.
Experiential learning and research
Every academic year brings new opportunities for research, new exhibitions, and new ways for students to engage with the wider art community. These projects range from exhibitions that address the connections between art and technology, to funded sculpture installations on heritage sites.
Each year the graduating Visual Art students mount a major exhibition in our gallery and studio spaces. We even offer a course, VISA 475 Exhibition Theory and Practice, that allows you to take leading roles and gain experience in mounting a major exhibition – and earn credits while doing it.
Campus features
The Audain Art Centre offers students in the Visual Art program a central location, including learning-labs and the AHVA Gallery. The third floor offers space for visual art undergraduates to gather and connect with their peers in a supportive and inclusive environment.
Housed in the Audain Art Centre, the UBC Printmedia Research Centre provides a dynamic learning and research environment for the production of visual art in all major print media. This well-equipped facility allows for an integrated approach to print media that fosters a union of digital-image generation with traditional and contemporary intaglio, relief, screen, and lithographic printmaking processes, as well as letterpress and bookbinding procedures.
Send details
Why this program?
Learn in a studio-focused, intensive program within a world-renowned research university.
Enjoy a dynamic combination of hands-on, practical learning, and academic breadth.
Study within a small, active cohort, while having access to a sweeping range of other fields of study.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
VISA 110 - Foundation Studio: Digital Media
Foundation instruction in techniques and approaches to digital practice. The nature of digital technologies and their role in contemporary culture will be examined. (This course is open to all UBC students, regardless of prior experience.)
VISA 180 - Foundation Studio: Approaches to Media
Drawing, painting, and related media in an introduction to studio practice. (This course is open to all UBC students, regardless of prior experience.)
VISA 183 - Foundation Studio: Ideas as Practice I
Contemporary art practices, emphasizing the relationship between meanings and materials, art historical contexts and concepts, and non-traditional materials. (This course is open to all UBC students, regardless of prior experience.)
VISA 101 - BFA Studio Practice
Introduction to a broad range of contemporary studio practice. Intended for first year Bachelor of Fine Arts VISA students.
ARTH 101 - Ways of Seeing: Introduction to Visual Studies
Drawing on examples from across history and around the world, this course deals with the role of the visual in society, culture, and everyday experience.
VISA 280 - Contemporary Art: Ideas as Practice II
Development and history of contemporary art practice, with a focus on how artists realize and exchange ideas. Intended for second year BFA VISA students.
VISA 210 - Digital Arts
Examination of current art practices and issues related to digital technologies and contemporary culture, with an emphasis on the theoretical conceptualization of digital artistic media.
VISA 230 - Painting
Development of a variety of techniques and approaches to painting. Emphasis on developing a strong paint vocabulary as well as acquiring knowledge of historical and contemporary issues in painting.
VISA 241 - Digital Photography
Introduction to digital photography image creation in relation to contemporary art. Emphasis on digital camera use, file management, and digital print production.  Only one of VISA 240 or VISA 241 may be used toward requirements for Major, Minor, or Honours programs in Visual Art.
VISA 260 - Sculpture
Contemporary sculpture practice and theory. Various sculpture materials and technologies including machinery use.
VISA 321 - Intermediate Drawing II
Investigation of drawing as a discipline in the context of contemporary art and theory. Emphasis on self-directed projects in consultation with the instructor.
VISA 330 - Intermediate Painting I
Development of techniques and personal style in relation to ideas. History and contemporary issues in painting will be introduced  to assist students in conceptualizing their painting practice.
VISA 375 - Artists in Society
Exploring artistic practice through community-engaged partnerships and critical study.
VISA 380 - Studio Theory
A seminar in problems in contemporary art practice and related theory. Preference given to Visual Art students.
ARTH 369 - Art in Japan: Modern Visual Culture
Self and community in the art and visual culture of modern Japan.
VISA 401 - Advanced Open Studio
Research-based studio with thematic or disciplinary focus.  Intended for senior Visual Art undergraduate students.
VISA 480 - Advanced Seminar I
Readings in art theory and criticism.
VISA 479 - Performance Actions and Approaches
Advanced performance art practices and research methodologies.
ARTH 380 - Art as Technology
Relationship between artistic practice and media, examined through a history of paradigm shifts in technology.
VISA 475 - Exhibition Theory and Practice
Exhibition course focusing on current curatorial practices and theories with an emphasis on contemporary visual art with the aim of preparing students to engage in the active organization of a large exhibition. Restricted to 4th year Majors in either VISA or ARTH, or permission of the instructor.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
View larger image
UBC's Vancouver campus
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Visual Art students at UBC’s Vancouver campus enjoy specialized facilities and art-making studios. The best of both worlds, the program offers small, unique spaces on a sprawling and diverse campus.
Find out more
Your future
Creative thinkers and problem-solvers are widely sought after. People who are equipped to create and respond critically to visual objects are increasingly valuable.
The Visual Art program equips you with the tools and skills necessary to work professionally in a wide range of contemporary visual art fields, to pursue a Master of Fine Arts, or to go on to further studies in related fields, such as education, architecture, and interior design. You will also have the foundation to pursue other careers and studies requiring an arts degree – for example law, MBA, and library and archival studies.
Program graduates
Mixed-media artist
Photographer
UBC stories
Multimedia artist and Visual Art student Patrick finds inspiration in everything from his philosophy seminars to the Vancouver skyline.
Patrick O'Neill, Visual Art
Read the full story
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Fine Arts (direct-entry specializations only; excludes Creative Writing)
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Audition or portfolio
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Tour UBC’s Okanagan and Vancouver campuses from anywhere
Read admissions blog post
Visual Arts alumna Nadine shares her UBC Okanagan experience
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC