Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/visual-art-ba/

Visual Art (BA)
at UBC's
Vancouver Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
This program is similar to a general liberal arts degree with an emphasis on the practice of visual art. Held in studio environments, visual art classes foster individual creative production and visual literacy in a lively atmosphere of instructor-led debate, discussion, and critique.
Why this program?
Take courses in a well-rounded program of visual art practice, critical theory, and art history, within a stimulating and challenging academic environment.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Vancouver
Faculty:
Faculty of Arts
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
No
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Visual Art involves the exploration and practice of different artistic media, in combination with developing an understanding of visual culture. In this program you will enjoy a combination of visual art practice, academics, and a broad range of elective courses, while having ample room for study in other areas of interest (including a minor or second major). Visual art courses foster individual creative production, and art history and academic electives develop visual literacy in a lively atmosphere of instructor-led debate, discussion, and critique.
You will explore art-making in at least four different media areas – including digital art, photography, painting, sculpture, drawing, and print media – and will develop your writing and research skills in art history and electives. Progressing in the visual art program, you will focus on your chosen media areas and combine those areas with research-based writing or a second area of study. Awareness of art’s history and visual culture will empower you to create and discuss visual objects – approaching everything from traditional painting to online media with a developed and critical eye.
Experiential learning and research
Every academic year brings new opportunities for research, new exhibitions, and new ways for students to engage with the wider art community. These projects range from exhibitions that address the connections between art and technology, to funded sculpture installations on heritage sites.
Each year the graduating Visual Art students mount a major exhibition in our gallery and studio spaces. We even offer a course, VISA 475 Exhibition Theory and Practice, that allows you to take leading roles and gain experience in mounting a major exhibition – and earn credits while doing it.
Campus features
The Audain Art Centre offers students in the Visual Art program a central location, including learning-labs and the AHVA Gallery. The third floor offers space for visual art undergraduates to gather and connect with their peers in a supportive and inclusive environment.
Housed in the Audain Art Centre, the UBC Printmedia Research Centre provides a dynamic learning and research environment for the production of visual art in all major print media. This well-equipped facility allows for an integrated approach to print media that fosters a union of digital-image generation with traditional and contemporary intaglio, relief, screen, and lithographic printmaking processes, as well as letterpress and bookbinding procedures.
Send details
Why this program?
Take courses in a well-rounded program of visual art practice, critical theory, and art history, within a stimulating and challenging academic environment.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
VISA 180 - Foundation Studio: Approaches to Media
Drawing, painting, and related media in an introduction to studio practice. (This course is open to all UBC students, regardless of prior experience.)
VISA 183 - Foundation Studio: Ideas as Practice I
Contemporary art practices, emphasizing the relationship between meanings and materials, art historical contexts and concepts, and non-traditional materials. (This course is open to all UBC students, regardless of prior experience.)
VISA 110 - Foundation Studio: Digital Media
Foundation instruction in techniques and approaches to digital practice. The nature of digital technologies and their role in contemporary culture will be examined. (This course is open to all UBC students, regardless of prior experience.)
ARTH 101 - Ways of Seeing: Introduction to Visual Studies
Drawing on examples from across history and around the world, this course deals with the role of the visual in society, culture, and everyday experience.
ARTH 102 - Crisis and Contradiction in Art and the Built Environment
Concepts and issues critical to the understanding of art and its histories in a global context.
ARTH 227 - Art and the Visual Environment in the Modern and Post-modern Periods
A selective survey of visual art, architecture and other visual media since 1900.
ARTH 226 - Art in an Era of Global Expansion
A selective survey of painting, sculpture, and architecture from the 16th century to the emergence of the modern era.
VISA 210 - Digital Arts
Examination of current art practices and issues related to digital technologies and contemporary culture, with an emphasis on the theoretical conceptualization of digital artistic media.
VISA 240 - Photography
Introduction to photography techniques and image-making. Emphasis on camera techniques and film and darkroom production. Only one of VISA 240 or VISA 241 may be used toward requirements for Major, Minor, or Honours programs in Visual Art.
VISA 250 - Print Media
Visual print culture, and contemporary and historical technical print practices. Emphasis on hand-drawn intaglio, relief, screen and/or stencil printing, and graphic digital applications.
VISA 380 - Studio Theory
A seminar in problems in contemporary art practice and related theory. Preference given to Visual Art students.
VISA 320 - Intermediate Drawing I
Investigation of drawing as a discipline in the context of contemporary art. Emphasis on expanding definitions of the drawing practice while focusing on technical and conceptual development.
VISA 375 - Artists in Society
Exploring artistic practice through community-engaged partnerships and critical study.
VISA 341 - Intermediate Photography II
An investigation of contemporary photography production and approaches to the constructed image with emphasis on medium and large format camera use and studio lighting techniques.
ARTH 321 - Public and Private Bodies: Italian Renaissance Art and Culture
Visual art and culture within the social, political, and religious contexts of the Papacy and the city-states ca. 1350-1550 (Siena, Florence, Venice, Mantua).
VISA 401 - Advanced Open Studio
Research-based studio with thematic or disciplinary focus.  Intended for senior Visual Art undergraduate students.
VISA 479 - Performance Actions and Approaches
Advanced performance art practices and research methodologies.
VISA 475 - Exhibition Theory and Practice
Exhibition course focusing on current curatorial practices and theories with an emphasis on contemporary visual art with the aim of preparing students to engage in the active organization of a large exhibition. Restricted to 4th year Majors in either VISA or ARTH, or permission of the instructor.
ARTH 410 - Seminar in African Art
Key debates in the art of Africa and the African diaspora
ARTH 445 - Film and the City
The complex interrelations between film and the city; dominant urban theories, film technologies and viewing practices and the intersections between them.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Instagram
View larger image
UBC's Vancouver campus
Life at UBC's Vancouver campus
Visual Art students at UBC’s Vancouver campus enjoy specialized facilities and art-making studios. The best of both worlds, the program offers small, unique spaces on a sprawling and diverse campus.
Find out more
Your future
The flexibility of the Visual Art program allows you to creatively pair art-making with other areas of study, which empowers you to be a flexible and dynamic employee in a broad range of career paths. People who are equipped to create and respond critically to visual objects are increasingly valuable.
The Visual Art program equips you with the tools and skills necessary to work professionally in visual fields, as well as to pursue further studies in related fields such as architecture or urban design. You will also have the foundation to pursue other careers and fields of studies that require an arts degree – for example education, MBA, law, and library and archival studies.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Arts
No specific courses required beyond those needed for general admission
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Second Languages
Social Studies
Visual and Performing Arts
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Meet Patrick, a multimedia artist who finds inspiration all around him
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC