Link: https://you.ubc.ca/ubc_programs/zoology/

Zoology
at UBC's
Okanagan Campus
Summary
Program info
Your future
Requirements
Visit program website
Explore the animal kingdom as a biological scientist by studying behaviours, physiology, anatomy, and the entire animal organism. You'll gain practical experience and skills in laboratory and fieldwork, computers, and communication.
Why this program?
Work closely with classmates and professors while studying in outdoor settings where you can apply your knowledge and skills to solve real-world resource management problems.
Complete a co-op to gain beneficial skills, build your resumé, expand your professional network, and earn money.
Visit program website
Program information
Send details
Campus:
Okanagan
Faculty:
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science
Degree:
Bachelor of Science
Length
4 yrs
Co-op
Yes
You can combine your studies with full-time, paid work at top local and international organizations.
Honours
Yes
You can study intense specialization in a single field.
Zoology is a
College of Applied Biology
accredited program that studies animal biology from the perspective of the entire animal organism. Your studies will cover a broad range of topics in animal biology (physiology, ecology, developmental biology). You’ll also gain practical experience and skills in laboratory and fieldwork, computers, and communication.
Experiential learning and research
Take your studies outside the classroom with the ample opportunities for field work in the Biology program’s course offerings, including Entomology, Field Ornithology, Evolutionary Ecology, and more. Two senior-level course options allow you to conduct independent research projects in the field.
You also have the opportunity to take your studies abroad with the Go Global program and the Exchange and Research Abroad program, or participate in original research – either your own or a professor’s in your field.
Irving K. Barber Faculty of Science undergraduate research awards
Campus features
UBC’s Okanagan campus is home to a number of world-class research facilities, including the Okanagan Institute for Biodiversity, Resilience and Ecosystem Services (BRAES). BRAES is a consortium of UBC faculty members and students, collaborators and partner organizations working together to advance research and teaching in conservation and ecology.
Okanagan Institute for Biodiversity, Resilience and Ecosystem Services
Send details
Why this program?
Work closely with classmates and professors while studying in outdoor settings where you can apply your knowledge and skills to solve real-world resource management problems.
Complete a co-op to gain beneficial skills, build your resumé, expand your professional network, and earn money.
Sample courses
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
BIOL 116 - Biology for Science Majors I
First of a pair of courses that introduce students to the biological concepts necessary to continue into second-year biology. Covers evolutionary theory and its underlying genetic basis, basic cell biology, plant and animal nutrition, and energy acquisition. Credit will be granted for only BIOL 116/125 or BIOL 117/122.
CHEM 111 - Principles of Chemistry I
Stoichiometry, atomic and molecular structure, chemical periodicity, gases, liquids, solids, and solutions. Not open to students with Chemistry 12.
MATH 100 - Differential Calculus with Applications to Physical Sciences and Engineering
Derivatives of elementary functions, limits. Covers applications and modelling: graphing and optimization.
BIOL 125 - Biology for Science Majors II
Continuation of BIOL 116. Introduction to biological concepts necessary for second-year biology. Physiology of reproduction, gas exchange, inter-organ transport, inter-organ coordination in plants and animals, and excretion and movement in animals. Ecosystem, population, community, and behavioural ecology are discussed.
PHYS 112 - Introductory Physics for the Life Sciences I
Introduction to mechanics primarily for students majoring in the life sciences (e.g. biochemistry, biology, microbiology, pharmacy, human kinetics, human geography or psychology). Particle kinematics and dynamics, work and energy, momentum, gravitation, rigid body motion, fluid statics and dynamics with applications to the biological sciences. Students with Physics 12 may apply for a tutorial exemption.
BIOL 200 - Cell Biology
Structure and function of plant and animal cells; membrane models, cytoplasmic organelles, biological information from gene to protein, the endomembrane system, secretion, intracellular digestion, endocytosis, transport processes, cytoskeleton and cell motility.
BIOL 202 - Introduction to Biostatistics
Introduction to statistics, with emphasis on the application of commonly applied parametric and non-parametric statistical methods in the biological sciences. Use of computer software to manage data, conduct statistical analyses, and report findings in publishable formats.
CHEM 203 - Introduction to Organic Chemistry
Structure, bonding, and physical properties of aliphatic and aromatic compounds; conformational analysis, stereochemistry, and NMR spectroscopy; substitution and elimination reactions of alkyl halides; ethers, epoxides, aldehydes, ketones. Credit will not be granted for only one of CHEM 203 or CHEM 213.
CHEM 213 - Organic Chemistry for Biological Sciences I
Structure, bonding, and physical properties of organic compounds; conformational analysis, stereochemistry, and chirality; reactions of alkenes, alkyl halides, and alcohols. Emphasis will be placed on biological applications.
BIOL 205 - Comparative Invertebrate Zoology
Introduction to the invertebrate phyla.
BIOL 311 - Biochemistry I
Structure and function of proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleic acids. Principles of thermodynamics and enzyme reaction mechanisms. Enzyme kinetics. Credit will only be granted for one of BIOL 311 or BIOC 304.
BIOL 354 - Cell Physiology
The cell is the fundamental unit of life. This course delineates a number of shared biological processes conducted at the cellular level and similar across a wide range of organisms (e.g., acquisition of usable energy, energy storage, transport processes, irritability, and contractability).
BIOL 363 - Developmental Biology
Principles of animal development. Embryonic development of key invertebrates is compared to vertebrates at the morphological, genetic, and epigenetic levels. Differential gene expression and cell signaling responsible for the specification of embryonic cell fates and pattern formation will be compared in various animals.
BIOL 341 - Neurobiology
The nervous system control of animal behavior. Examples include: sensory processing and communication, predator-prey interactions, migration, motor-coordination, daily and seasonal changes in activity, cellular mechanisms of learning and memory.
BIOL 357 - Introduction to Entomology
General survey of the evolution, classification, and biology of insects, with a special emphasis on their functional ecology. Experiments using insect systems as well as master techniques for collecting and curating insect specimens will be conducted in the lab. A properly-curated collection is a requirement for this course.
BIOL 417 - Evolutionary Ecology
Advanced survey of the field of evolutionary ecology: the study of the ecological basis for the evolution of life histories, sex, mating strategies, and foraging strategies.
BIOL 420 - Special Topics in Biology
With permission of the unit, this course may be taken more than once with a different topic.
BIOL 422 - Conservation Biology
Scientific basis of conservation biology. Analysis of demographic data, population models, and extinction risks. Examine complex habitat, landscape, genetic, and trophic interactions that affect populations. Conservation approaches including habitat planning, reserve design, surrogacy, and policy.
BIOL 459 - Behavioural Ecology
Ecological and evolutionary basis for behaviour, the role of behaviour in enabling an organism to adapt to its environment. Topics include optimization and game theoretic approaches, foraging, sociality, mating, and parental care. Laboratory provides opportunities to explore concepts covered in lecture.
BIOL 461 - Cell Signaling
Explores how signal transduction mechanisms link environmental changes to gene expression. "Quorum sensing" in bacteria, origin of metazoan signaling, signaling pathways between prokaryotes and eukaryotes, role of "chaperones" in cell survival and cell death, evolution of signaling pathways and role of three-dimensional analysis of protein interactions.
Follow this program
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Twitter
Follow on YouTube
View larger image
UBC's Okanagan campus
Life at UBC's Okanagan campus
UBC's Okanagan campus is renowned for its research opportunities and access to professors. On this tight-knit campus, you’ll be able to work closely with award-winning faculty and make meaningful connections with your peers. You’ll also have access to clubs like the Biology Course Union.
Find out more
Your future
A UBC degree in Zoology prepares you for a range of careers in such areas as conservation, environmental assessment, aquaculture, forensic biology, toxicology, and more.
Related programs
Program requirements
Canadian high schools
International high schools
International baccalaureate
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your province is not selected)
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland & Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon
- Select Location -
Basic requirements (if your country is not listed)
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Cameroon - British
Cameroon - French
Cayman Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominica
Ecuador
Egypt – 11 Years of Education
Egypt – 12 Years of Education
El Salvador
Ethiopia
Finland
France (French Baccalaureate)
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Macao
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
The Gambia
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turks and Caicos Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom (British-patterned education)
United States (American curriculum)
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
English-language requirements
English is the language of instruction at UBC. All prospective students must demonstrate English-language competency prior to admission. There are numerous ways to meet the
English Language Admission Standard
.
General admission requirements
IB Diploma Programme
Completed IB Diploma, including at least three Higher Level courses.
IB Certificate Courses
IB Certificate courses (Standard and Higher Level) may be used in an admissions average if you are graduating from a recognized high school curriculum that can be used as your basis of admission.
IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, do not satisfy the math requirement for admission to UBC’s science-based programs, the Faculty of Management, the UBC Sauder School of Business, or the Vancouver School of Economics.
Degree-specific requirements:
Science
IB Math Analysis and Approaches SL
or
HL,
or
IB Math Applications and Interpretations HL (IB Math Applications and Interpretations SL, or IB Math Studies, are not acceptable)
One of IB Biology, IB Chemistry, or IB Physics
Grade 11 or equivalent Chemistry
Grade 11 or equivalent Physics is strongly recommended
Note: Grade 11 Chemistry and Physics requirements listed are only relevant to students who are
not
completing the equivalent IB Diploma Chemistry and/or Physics courses.
For students studying outside of Canada, some examples of courses that may be accepted as Grade 11 equivalents are junior-level courses for American students, and IGCSE and O Level for those following British-patterned curricula.
Related courses
The following
subject categories
are particularly relevant for this degree. Consider taking courses in these areas in your junior year and senior year.
Language Arts
Mathematics and Computation
Sciences
Visit program website
You’ll find these pages helpful
Deep dive into UBC programs and get a taste of campus life
Read admissions blog post
Meet Brooke, and discover how she ended up tracking cheetahs in South Africa
Read full story
Ready to choose your degree?
Apply to UBC