Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/accounting-courses/accounting-and-finance-top-up-ba-hons-online/

Accounting and Finance (Top-Up) BA (Hons) - Accounting - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Accounting
Accounting and Finance (Top-Up) BA (Hons)
Apply now
Apply now
Undergraduate Course
Accounting and Finance (Top-Up)
BA (Hons)
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 1-2 years
UK fee
£5,250
(2024/25)
‡
International fee
£5,250
(2024/25)
‡
Start dates
September, January, May
Location
Online
We have partnered with the CISI (Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment) for this course. It is also directly mapped against the teaching of their foundation qualification,
Introduction to Investment
, with the option to take its exam upon completion of our course. Gaining the full bachelors degree can improve your career prospects, strengthen your CV and allow you to move on to a masters degree at a later date, should you wish to.
It’s a popular choice for busy professionals or those returning to work who want to get all the benefits a full degree brings but need a flexible study pattern. We accept a range of qualifications for entry onto the course.
Apply for module exemptions and module credits from prior learning and experience
If you have already completed ACCA or CIMA papers, you may be eligible for exemptions from specific modules. This will allow you to save money from the total cost of your course and also allows you to complete your degree quicker. Further details can be found in
our Exemptions section
.
Have you already studied at another institution, completed a training course, or does your work experience appear equivalent to one or more modules of your chosen course? If so, you may able to translate this prior learning into credits towards your course modules so you don’t have to study them again.
For undergraduate courses you can apply for credits up to 50% of each stage. Depending on your former learning this could mean you only need to complete one module and an independent study project to complete the course. Further information about applying for credits for prior learning can be found in
our recognition of prior learning section
.
Further details can be found in
our Exemptions section
.
Ideal for aspiring accountants and others
This online Accounting and Finance top-up degree will give you a thorough understanding of Accounting and Business concepts. It is ideal if you want to go on to be a professional accountant or work within the financial services sector. However, having a good understanding of Accounting and Finance is an advantage in any profession today. So, even if you don’t want to work in financial services, you will find this online top-up degree valuable.
Tutors that work to the latest professional standards
Our teaching staff are all professionally qualified and have industry as well as academic experience. They also teach on the professional body courses, such as ACCA (Association of Chartered Certified Accountants) and CIMA (Chartered Institute of Management Accountants), which means they understand the most current professional standards. That’s important because you need to be sure that what you’ll learn is up to date and relevant to today’s business world.
CISI Education University Partnership
We have the first online university degree programme in the UK to be partnered with the CISI, the largest and most widely respected professional body for the securities and investment profession in the UK, with a growing number of global financial centres. Our Accounting and Finance (Top-Up) BA (Hons) has been closely mapped against the CISI’s Introduction to Investment foundation qualification, helping you to prepare you for its exam, which can be taken at the University of Derby campus or at one of the CISI’s global test centres.
Furthermore, students wishing to pursue the Introduction to Investment qualification will benefit from a 50% saving on the exam fee and the work book. A
one-off registration fee
will be payable to become a
CISI student member
, giving you access to a number of membership benefits designed to support your studies and broaden your career development. We are offering a limited number of scholarships to cover the cost of the CISI registration fee, exam fee and workbook – a select few will be chosen upon enrolment.
The Introduction to Investment qualification is the first step on the CISI qualification pathway, and is also recognised by the UK Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It will be of special interest to you if you are interested in a career in wealth management, operational investments, financial planning, compliance and risk, and stockbroking. Upon completion of this foundation qualification, there is then an option to join the CISI as an
affiliate member
(subject to annual membership fee).
A talk from our academic
Our Academic for Accounting and Finance, Dr Alexis Makropoulos, talks about the online undergraduate Accounting and Finance courses in this video.
View the introduction to our online undergraduate Accounting and Finance courses video transcript
What you will study
You can
view the study plan for this online course
.
If we have insufficient numbers of students interested in an optional module, this may not be offered. In addition, where demand is high, some modules may be subject to a cap.
For this top-up degree, you will need to complete a total of 120 credits. This will be made up from the core modules (adding up to 80 credits) and two of the optional 20-credit modules in your preferred area of Accounting and Finance.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
Pace of study
The academic year is made up of three 10-week terms, known as trimesters. We recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete one 20-credit module over a 10-week trimester.
If you opt to undertake the accelerated study plan whereby you will study two modules in one trimester, we recommend 40 hours of study per week.
Should you decide to study on the accelerated rate you should ensure that you have the capacity to fully engage with your studies and achieve the best grades and final award. If you choose to study on the accelerated rate, you will need to balance approximately 40 hours of study per week alongside your professional and personal life and commitments.
It may be useful to consider studying one module at the standard rate of study before deciding whether to then increase to the accelerated rate of study.
There will be 1/2 virtual classrooms over the 10 week trimester and if you are unable to attend you will be able to download the session to view in your own time.
Assessment method
This course is assessed through 100% coursework with a range of methods, such as essays, research reports, presentations, group work and practical reports.
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Get a taste of the course content
Our Accounting and Finance (Top-Up) BA (Hons) course taster will give you an idea of how online learning works. It includes a selection of content from a course module so you can see what some of our learning material looks like.
You will need to complete a short form to access the course taster.
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Entry requirements
You need to have one of the following qualifications:
HND or Foundation Degree in Accounting or Finance or international equivalent
ACCA (Association of Chartered Certified Accountants) F1-F6 or ACCA F1-F5 and F7
CIMA (Chartered Institute of Management Accountants) Advanced Diploma
ABE (Association of Business Executives) Advanced Diploma in Business Administration
IBAM (Institute of Business Administration and Management) Advanced Diploma in Business Administration
Exemptions
If you have already completed CIMA’s F3 module or hold more than six ACCA F papers, you will be eligible for exemptions on this BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance (top up) degree.
ACCA qualification exemptions
You will be able to gain exemptions on this course, if you hold specific ACCA F papers. Depending on the papers you hold you will be exempt from either one or two modules.
ACCA Papers
Module Exemptions
If you hold all of the following papers:
F1, F2, F3, F4, F5, F6 and F7
You will be exempt from the Financial Reporting (6AG521)
If you hold all of the following papers:
F1, F2, F3, F4, F5, F6, F8 and F9
You will be exempt from the Financial Reporting (6AG521)
If you hold all of the following papers:
F1, F2, F3, F4, F5, F6, F7 and F8
You will be exempt from the Financial Reporting module, plus, one of the following modules depending on your course start date:
Financial Statement Analysis (6AG512) - For students starting the course in September
Contemporary Reporting Issues (6AG536) - For students staring the course in January
Financial Statement Analysis (6AG512) - For students starting the course in May
CIMA qualification exemptions
CIMA members who have completed the F3 module, will receive one module exemption on this course.
CIMA Module
Module exemption
F3
Financial Reporting (6AG521)
English language qualifications
If English is not your first language, or you have not successfully completed your highest level of qualification in English, you will need an English language qualification. For this course you will need at least one of the following:
IELTS (International English Language Testing System) 6.0
TOEFL 550 (paper based) 213 (computer based) or 80 (internet based)
Pearson Test of Academic English: 51
Cambridge Advanced Certificate: Pass
London Tests of English: we accept level 4 for undergraduate courses
International GCE O-level English Language: Grade C
International GCSE English/English as a Second Language: Grade C
Find out more about our English language requirements
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£875
5 (4 x 20 credit modules and 1 x 40 credit module)
£5,250
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£905
5 (4 x 20 credit modules and 1 x 40 credit module)
£5,430
About your fees
This figure would be the total cost of this course based on the fee in the current academic year. However, please note that fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase if your course lasts longer than one year.
If you are required to undertake any associate study or additional study as a condition of your offer for the programme, please be aware that the cost for this may be in addition to the programme cost stated above.
Flexible payment plans available
Choose from
two payment plan options
:
Pay monthly and only for the modules you are studying
Pay your full course fees upfront and avoid annual increases
Undergraduate funding options
Depending on where you are from in the UK or EU, and on your pace of study, you may be eligible for an
undergraduate student loan
. Accessible through Student Finance, this is a non-income based loan to meet the cost of tuition fees.
If you are considering applying for a student loan, please also see our additional guidance on
Loans for Online Students
.
If you already hold an honours degree, and you are looking to re-skill or up-skill, you may still be eligible for a loan to study this course.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Application deadlines
All of our online courses have set start dates throughout the year. We require time to review your application and get back to you with a response before your course starts. Take a look at
information regarding applying for an online course
to see full details of deadlines and term dates.
Careers
Become a qualified accountant, quicker than most
We have designed the degree to help you get maximum exemptions from a range of professional qualifications*. This shortens the time required for you to become a fully qualified member of your chosen professional body.
There is always a demand for accounting graduates
Our past students have gone on to work for local public practices, multinational accounting firms and taken up accounting careers in merchant banks and other large businesses. As an accountant you will have the opportunity to work in many diverse fields, anywhere in the world.
*Please check with your regional professional body to find out more about the exemptions available to you
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
International Business and Finance (Top-Up) BA (Hons)
Banking and Finance (Top-Up) BA (Hons)