Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/accounting-courses/accounting-and-finance-ba-hons-with-placement-year/

Accounting and Finance BA (Hons) with Placement Year - Accounting - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Accounting
Accounting and Finance BA (Hons) with Placement Year
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Accredited by the European Foundation for Management Development (EFMD)
Accounting and Finance with Placement Year
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
N2FP
Start date
September
Location
Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
Study on a European Foundation for Management Development (EFMD) accredited course
We put you on the fast track to achieving membership of a professional body. By taking relevant modules, you’ll be eligible to apply for all nine maximum exemptions offered by ACCA as well as exemptions from CIMA, ICAEW, CPA Australia and AIA qualifications
Through our partnership with international accountancy firm Mazars we offer a Mazars Accelerate Pathway (MAP) with guaranteed, paid student placements to a select number of students, providing valuable experience of working in a professional environment
Exciting opportunities for live consultancy projects and fieldtrips will introduce you to the realities of the modern business world
Undertake an 8-week Sage software programme to gain an ACCA accredited Sage certificate
You'll have the opportunity to complete the Bloomberg Market Concepts (BMC) Certificate
We allow you to recognise and reflect on your own teaching and learning style - students can choose to take either an exam based or non-exam-based assessment method
Our team have committed to joining the International Tax Week symposium; this comprises of 8 other universities across Europe to address a contemporary area of international taxation.
Boost your employability with a placement year
You’ll have the opportunity to take a placement year to put the skills you’ve learned into practice in a real-world environment. We'll support you to find your placement and throughout your year in industry. Placements allow you to gain valuable experience to add to your CV, make industry contacts and help you to narrow down what kind of role you may be interested in after graduation.
Top
20
for teaching quality - Accounting and Finance subject area
Times and Sunday Times University Guide 2024
Top
5
for student to staff ratio - Accounting and Finance
Guardian University Guide 2024
Professional body exemptions
The BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance provides the ideal pathway for you to join a professional body. If you select the relevant modules, you’ll be eligible to apply for all nine of the maximum exemptions offered by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA). We also run the ACCA Accelerate programme which offers you exclusive benefits, including industry-specific careers advice.
You could choose to pursue other professional accounting qualifications too. Our course gives you the chance to apply for a range of exemptions offered by:
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA)
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW)
Association of International Accountants (AIA)
CPA Australia
Our BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance prepares you for the professional world in a way that is relevant, inspiring and practical. It gives you a sound understanding of all the key accounting and financial principles so that you’re ready to take up a management position in industry and commerce or to become a professional accountant.
Accounting students experience International Tax Week in Italy
Derby is one of 10 institutions involved in International Tax Week, where students come together from across Europe to tackle contemporary tax issues. This time taking place in Italy, final year Accounting and Finance students Asad Ahmed and Shakur Sackey reflect on their time at the annual event.
Find out more
Find out more
Internationally approved
Our BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance is accredited by the
European Foundation for Management Development (EFMD)
, meaning our course has been stringently checked against a range of criteria to ensure our students graduate with a wealth of knowledge across all key areas of accounting.
University of Derby's Accounting and Finance course achieves international programme accreditation
The University of Derby’s Business School has achieved European Foundation for Management Development (EFMD) Programme Accreditation for its BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance course, the first of its kind in the UK to do so.
Find out more
Find out more
Engage with industry
The BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance course, in partnership with international accountancy firm Mazars, offers our students the opportunity to secure a paid placement at one of the Mazars offices. This will be subject to a successful application process. Students can apply for the Mazars industrial placement in their first year. This is exclusive to students studying on the BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance programme. If successful, your placement will commence at the start of your third year.
Depending on your performance in your placement year and your final degree award, Mazars may offer you a place on their audit graduate trainee programme. You’ll also benefit from mentoring and insight visits to their offices in your first and second year.
We also undergo projects with recruitment company Hays as part of the
Professional Development Module in stage two.
Accounting and Finance Clinic
Our monthly clinic is student-led and provides free accounting and finance support for small to medium enterprises (SME's), tailored depending on your organisation's needs.
Find out more
Find out more
Hands-on learning
Between stages two and three, you will have the opportunity to gain valuable industry experience by taking a placement year. Our students have undertaken placements with organisations such as Boots, the NHS, Faurecia and local accounting practices including Smith Cooper and Duncan & Toplis.
Fieldtrips will help you to translate theory into practice. We have visited companies such as PKF Cooper Parry as well as a council finance department. A recent fieldtrip to Chatsworth House featured an informative talk by the Chief Executive of the Devonshire Trust and the Head of Visitor Experience for the Chatsworth Group. Such opportunities deepen your understanding of the wider business world and underpin your live coursework projects.
View Accounting fieldtrip video video transcript
Accounting and Finance graduate Simran Chohan has hit the ground running
Accounting and Finance graduate Simran Chohan has hit the ground running in her new job as Tax Assistant at PKF Smith Cooper. She believes the opportunities she experienced throughout her degree contributed significantly to getting the role with the leading regional accountancy firm.
Read her story
Read her story
Accounting – your questions answered
In the below video, Senior Lecturer, Darren Byrne, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Accounting at the University of Derby.
Global thinking
We’re committed to helping you develop an international outlook and you could take part in optional overseas fieldtrips. On a trip to Copenhagen, our students visited the Louisiana Modern Art Museum to learn more about the problem of art fraud, bringing to life themes such as business ethics, forensic accounting, audit and assurance.
Expert teaching
Our accounting and finance teaching team are all professionally qualified, with industry as well as academic experience. Because they have also taught on courses for ACCA and CIMA, they can keep you up to date with the latest professional standards. Our research is at the forefront of bringing solutions to organisational problems for growth and sustainability. We research these themes across private, public and charity-sector organisations as part of our
Accounting, Accountability and Ethics Group
.
Our extensive professional networks bring an extra dimension to the teaching on this course. We have introduced employer mentors who provide students with one-to-one support and guidance. A team from HMRC also visits the University to run a mock assessment centre, especially useful for students taking taxation modules.
Further networking opportunities are arranged through our dynamic Accounting Society, established and run by students. They organise activities such as mentoring sessions, social and fundraising events.
Facilities and resources
You can make the most of our exciting
Financial Markets Lab
, a high-specification facility used in various modules and assessments on the course. You could even work towards the Bloomberg Market Concepts Certificate to enhance your CV.
In addition, you’ll learn how to use Microsoft Excel for accounting applications and there is the opportunity to become familiar with SAGE, the accounting bookkeeping package.
New Derby Business School in the city centre
We're building a new Derby Business School, serving as an international centre of excellence. The superb new teaching facilities will build on our established reputation for inspirational teaching and research excellence, as we shape the next generation of qualified business leaders.
Find out more about our new Derby Business School
Find out more about our new Derby Business School
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
During the first and second stages, you will learn mainly through:
formal lectures
tutorials
workshops
industry projects
From the second stage, you are expected to work more independently and take greater charge of your own learning, while receiving guidance and direction from the academic staff.
Examples of projects
The Independent Study module is an important element of the final year, enabling you to pursue in-depth research into a theme of your choice. Recent examples include investigating issues such as the impact of sugar tax on businesses in Derby, financial fair play rules in football and the movement towards narrative or integrated reporting.
Some of these projects involve live briefs for employers: one student completed a study on internal control systems on behalf of Derby Museums.
How you are assessed
Assessments are designed to help you gauge your own level of learning through constructive feedback. The range of assessments includes methods such as:
Computer-based assessments
Examinations
Essays
Business reports
Employer negotiated assessment briefs (with companies such as Chatsworth, Birds, Derby Cricket Club, Bolsover District council, and HMRC (HM Revenue & Customs)
Videos,
Group reports and presentations
Portfolio-based assessments.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
David Thompson
Programme Leader
David Thompson
Lecturer in Accounting
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Opportunities to enter ICAEW Business Challenge
Opportunity of part funded trips, optional with limited places available
Visit to an organisation - linked to live brief
Optional costs not included in your fees
One-off joining fee for Professional Accounting Body subject to the professional body offer
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Setting sights on your accounting and finance future
Accounting and finance graduates are in demand the world over, so you will have the opportunity to work in many diverse fields. Our former students have gone on to excel in local practices, multinational accounting firms, merchant banks and other major businesses.
On graduation – and depending on the module pathway you have selected – you can apply for exemptions from ACCA, CIMA, ICAEW, CPA Australia and AIA professional qualifications. This will shorten the time you need to become a fully qualified member of your chosen professional body. Representatives from the various professional bodies visit the University to explain more about their institutions, the exemptions available and the potential career paths you can consider.
Throughout your studies, you’ll also benefit from our Development Planning (PDP) scheme which enables you to reflect on your learning and develop your career ambitions. In addition, your programme will support you in your preparation for the work place. Your second year module, Professional Development Skills for Accounting Graduates, is tailored to the needs of the accounting profession. The module is designed to ensure that you are ready to apply for internships, placements and or graduate roles.
Further study
You can choose to continue your studies at Derby with the
MSc Accounting and Finance
. You may be entitled to an
alumni discount
on your fees if you decide to extend your time with us by progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate study.
How Derby helped Michael Hackley achieve his career goals
Our Accounting and Finance degree gave Michael Hackley all the knowledge and skills he needed for his career
Read more about Michael's story here
Read more about Michael's story here
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Other courses you might like
Business Accounting and Finance BA (Hons)
Business Management and Accounting BA (Hons)
Business Management and Economics BA (Hons)
Business Management and Finance BA (Hons)