Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/accounting-courses/accounting-finance-msc/

Accounting and Finance MSc - Accounting - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Accounting
Accounting and Finance MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Accounting and Finance
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, January
Location
Derby Campus
Offering a challenging and intellectually stimulating learning experience, our MSc Accounting and Finance prepares you for ACCA professional level examinations alongside a highly respected masters qualification.
Develop your financial techniques and knowledge to an impressive level through an exciting combination of technical and strategic learning
Improve your employability with key skills in critical thinking, communication, team work, leadership and management
Learn in an accredited
ACCA
and
CIMA
study centre, drawing on the expertise of professionally qualified staff who have both industry and academic experience
Take the opportunity to go on a short to medium-term finance internship, so that you benefit from relevant work experience while studying for your masters
Add substance to your CV; by completing this course, you can apply for exemptions from professional accounting bodies such as ACCA, CIMA, ICAEW, CPA Australia, AIA.
100
%
overall satisfaction - MSc Accounting and Finance
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
This MSc Accounting and Finance prepares you to be operationally and strategically effective in senior finance roles in any sectors, anywhere in the world.
Enhance your career prospects
We deliver thorough and inspirational training. You’ll extend your practical skills in the core areas of finance and accounting, gain a strong theoretical framework of knowledge and develop important research and analytical abilities.
The MSc offers a dual approach to learning which will help you create a CV of real interest and substance. If you have passed ACCA F1 – F9, or have exemptions for these papers then you can start working towards your ACCA professional level papers in parallel to studying for your masters qualification, with comprehensive support and guidance from your personal tutor throughout.
When you’ve completed the course, you’ll be fully equipped to advance your career within an increasingly complex and global business environment.
Making it real
We link the academic content of the course to real life business scenarios throughout. Via challenging consultancy projects, you’ll work with employers and leading professionals who will share their experiences with you and bring you up to date with latest developments in finance and accounting.
They deliver guest lectures, offer professional mentoring, give their input to assessments, and provide live case studies to bring a new dimension to your learning.
Many employers also offer our students short-term or medium-term finance-related internships, either on a paid or voluntary basis. The list of opportunities is broad. You could, for instance, make a difference to a local community organisation: our students have enjoyed internships with Derby Museum and the Citizens Advice and Law Centre in Derby.
Be inspired by our expertise
You’ll be taught by a dedicated team of professionally qualified (CIMA, ACCA, CIPFA and ICAEW) accountants who have many years of teaching, learning and assessment experience in higher education and professional accountancy programmes.
Among them are staff who have also taught on ACCA and CIMA courses so are ideally placed to help you prepare for your external professional papers. They also include active researchers whose work underpins and enriches the course.
Build your networks
The College of Business, Law and Social Sciences is proud of its role at the heart of the regional business community. We provide you with an academic experience that connects you to this business world, improving your networking skills and building your professional contacts.
Our MSc Accounting and Finance students have taken part in our Geldards Debate Series and our Network of Entrepreneurs events, and have attended talks by inspirational senior figures such as Sam Rush, former CEO of Derby County Football Club. All these opportunities give you a broader picture of business in action.
A dynamic learning experience
Class sizes are small so you’ll enjoy plenty of guidance in a friendly and stimulating atmosphere. Because the MSc attracts students from across the world, you’ll also be able to deepen your knowledge of accounting and finance in other countries and the cultural implications of business practice.
In our
Financial Markets Lab
you can gain hands-on experience of trade floor activities and financial market analysis. It gives you the chance to work with data direct from the stock exchange to simulate what it’s like to work in such a fast-paced arena.
We encourage you to take part in a wide range of extra-curricular activities and these can lead to an additional award to show employers the breadth of your experience. Our special Derby Futures Award for the enables you to build a portfolio showing what you have achieved above and beyond your studies – from networking to volunteering, from taking part in competitions to attending leadership workshops.
It’s all about demonstrating your ambition, confidence, independent thinking and professional behaviour to help you secure your ideal job and achieve greater success in your career.
New Derby Business School in the city centre
We're building a new Derby Business School, serving as an international centre of excellence. The superb new teaching facilities will build on our established reputation for inspirational teaching and research excellence, as we shape the next generation of qualified business leaders.
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
The course is made up of three stages – Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma and MSc.
To complete the MSc Accounting and Finance, you'll study modules such as:
Postgraduate Certificate
Strategic Business Leader
This module will develop your ability to exercise professional judgement in undertaking the role of the accountant in respect of governance, internal control, compliance and the management of risk in an organisation, all within an overall ethical framework. It focuses on enhancing your application, communication and technical skills.
Market Analysis
You’ll integrate your understanding of strategic analysis, marketing, finance, people management, IT, project management and business process change to make an informed analysis of the issues facing a business. You’ll then apply that knowledge and make reasoned judgements so that you can give practical, commercial advice based on a real business scenario.
Corporate Reporting
Providing a mix of technical and non-technical understanding, this module covers the application of international accounting standards to the preparation of group accounts. You’ll evaluate the ethical implications of selecting appropriate corporate reporting strategies and discuss the impact of contemporary and emerging corporate reporting issues on strategic business decisions.
Postgraduate Diploma
Advanced Financial Management
You’ll develop your skills in managing the conflicting needs of stakeholders as part of a senior financial manager’s responsibility; analysing the impact of macro economics in the financial management of multinationals; evaluating potential investment decisions; planning strategic growth and corporate reorganisation; and applying alternative advanced treasury and risk management techniques.
Advanced Performance Management
(subject to availability)
This module deepens your understanding of the links between management accounting and organisational strategy. It investigates external and internal influences on performance measurement in not-for-profit organisations and private companies. You’ll gain in-depth knowledge of performance management systems and insights into whether management accountants can forecast and help prevent business failure.
Advanced Taxation
(subject to availability)
You’ll gain further knowledge and understanding of business and personal taxation within a UK and international context. This will equip you to make decisions and provide recommendations surrounding strategic financial and taxation issues at senior levels within an organisation. You will also look at the impact of government taxation policies on businesses and individuals.
Advanced Audit and Assurance
You’ll discuss the nature, purpose and scope of audit and assurance practice, evaluating information systems and internal control systems and exploring the auditor’s position in relation to professional and ethical frameworks. This module equips you to appraise current approaches to undertaking an audit and assurance services within the requirements of international standards.
International Finance
Investigate how the global financial system works, examine international sources of finance and suitable investment opportunities, form a critical awareness of the risks associated with international trade, and evaluate how fluctuations in exchange rates affect a business.
Mergers and Acquisitions
Drawing on a range of disciplines, you’ll gain a strategic financial perspective on the use of mergers and acquisitions in business strategy. This module will help you to evaluate and analyse potential mergers and acquisitions and to make recommendations for a way forward in light of a company’s objectives.
MSc
Independent Study: Research Methods (20 credits)
Independent Study: Dissertation (40 credits)
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You will learn through a mixture of lectures, group work, discussions, workshops, case-study analysis, practical analysis and personal networking.
How you'll be assessed
The MSc Accounting and Finance uses a range of assessment methods including case study evaluation, time constrained assignments, reflective writing, research-based papers, presentations and group work.
We have also introduced assessments that will enhance your digital literacy capabilities, such as reporting via video and presenting data using infographics.
Who you'll meet
Our staff are passionate about their subject disciplines and committed to your success. The team includes:
Thomas Adeyemi
, Programme Leader, and a senior lecturer in accounting. Thomas’s research area includes Corporate Governance, Corporate Finance, Financial Management, Financial markets and Instruments.
Parminder Johal
, Head of Economics, Accounting and Finance, whose professional interests centre on how higher education can be aligned to the ever-changing nature of the accountancy profession and employers’ needs. Her research focuses on investigating accounting practices within SMEs, family-owned businesses and pedagogy practices across Accounting Education
David Thompson
, Lecturer in Accounting and Finance, who specialises in advanced audit and assurance as well as governance, risk and ethics.
Who will teach you
Thomas Adeyemi
Programme Leader
Thomas Adeyemi
Thomas Adeyemi is a Senior Lecturer in Accounting and Finance with extensive industry experience across diverse sectors.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
For the MSc you will usually need:
A good honours degree with an accounting background
If English is not your first language, you will also need IELTS 6.5 with 5.5 in each skills area.
To take advantage of the dual learning offered by the MSc programme, you will need:
A good honours degree in Accounting which provides exemptions from the first 9 ACCA papers or to have passed ACCA F1-F9.
To be registered with ACCA - this will be your own responsibility.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Opportunities to enter ICAEW Business Challenge
Some taster events - transport costs covered
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Opportunity to visit to local organisation subject to availability
Optional costs not included in your fees
One off Joining fee for Professional Accounting Body
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Full-time 12 month and part-time
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
There is always a demand for professional accountants and the MSc Accounting and Finance will equip you to embark on a new career – or advance your existing career – in many diverse roles and sectors, anywhere in the world.
Our graduates have taken up accounting and finance careers in both public and private sector businesses, ranging from local practices to multinational accounting firms.
Among their career destinations are senior roles with PwC, HMRC, the NHS, Baker Tilly International, epm:technology group, Ashgates Accountants and Business Advisors, Bates Weston and Prime Chartered Accountants.
Our strong links with the business community have opened doors to many exciting job opportunities. Over the last two years, Rolls-Royce have recruited our graduates into their finance department on six-month contracts which have subsequently become permanent jobs.
The MSc is fully focused on helping you to realise your career ambitions. We run a series of ‘professional development’ hours that you are invited to attend to nurture your broader employability skills and help you chart your future direction.
Special sessions are devised to fill any skills gaps which students themselves identify. We have, for instance, responded to requests for extra tuition in the use of Excel. You will also strengthen your CV through the extra-curricular activities undertaken as part of the Futures Award.
Professional accounting bodies such as ACCA and CIMA visit the University to showcase the different career routes that students can explore. Our alumni often attend these sessions too, sharing their own career experiences and often highlighting current vacancies within their own organisations.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Financial Leadership MSc
Master of Business Administration - MBA Global