Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/nursing-health-care-practice-courses/advanced-practice-msc/

Advanced Clinical Practice MSc - Nursing and Health Care Practice - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Nursing and Health Care Practice
Advanced Clinical Practice MSc
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Advanced Clinical Practice
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Part-time: 2 to 6 years
UK fee
£1,278 per 20 credits
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, March
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
The new MSc Advanced Clinical Practice programme (apprenticeship and non-apprenticeship route), will adopt successful elements of the current programme that have been modified over the years with the support and collaboration of the stakeholders, while addressing the requirements of national drivers. Please note: students are expected to attend Kedleston Road campus once a week.
The programme offers the trainee advanced clinical practitioner clinical and theoretical skills in the management of individual patient care via history taking, examination of body systems, requesting appropriate investigations, prescribing medicines and therapies where appropriate, interpreting results and referring where applicable.
As a trainee advanced practitioner, it is also important to drive service improvement, undertake audit and research, so as to develop new knowledge and educate others to help improve the services provided to the people they are treating. The programme adopts the four pillars of advanced practice so as to achieve this goal.
In accordance with the philosophy of our programme and the Teaching, Learning and Assessment strategy of the University, the delivery of the Advanced Clinical Practice programme offers variety and assures the learning and assessment activities are relevant and of value to future professional practice. This is achieved through facilitating learning via a constructivist approach in partnership with the employer, in order to develop effective autonomous practitioners.
100%
of students were satisfied with the quality of the course
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2023
100%
of students agreed that the course is intellectually stimulating
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2023
100%
of students agreed that staff are enthusiastic about what they teach
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2023
This programme is accredited by the Centre of Advancing Practice.
Health Education England’s Centre for Advancing Practice has been established to standardise post-registration education by accrediting advanced practice courses that achieve the standards outlined in the multi-professional Advanced Practice Framework.
Practitioners who have completed accredited education programmes will be eligible to be listed on the
Centre’s Advanced Practice Directory
.
Programme accreditation from the Centre for Advancing Practice will bring a new level of consistency to the workforce and help showcase advanced practice within health and social care.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
This course is made up of three stages – Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma and MSc.
Stage One
Clinical Decision Making
Clinical Management Investigations and Referrals for the Advanced Practitioner
Stage two
Non-Medical Prescribing (for those who are registered with professional bodies that allow prescribing practice, alternative modules can be selected if not)
Research
Stage three
Consolidating Advanced Practice
Option module for non-apprentices, for example Advancing Communication Skills, Advancing Practice, Symptom Management, Therapeutics and Prescribing Practice, to name but a few.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Students will be assessed via the following examples;
Case based scenarios taken from their clinical reflections and developed into academic work that incorporates evidence and clinical reasoning, which will in turn inform their clinical practice.
The modules will help link the students everyday ‘lived’ practice via reflective thought and help develop a questioning approach to the application of effective and evidence-based care.
Other assessment methods include;
OSCE’s
Presentations
Examinations
Clinical logs
Viva
Who will teach you
Donna Brewster: Lecturer Advanced Practice, Independent Prescriber and Advanced Nurse Practitioner
Terri-Ann Walsh: Lecturer Advanced Practice, Independent Prescriber and Advanced Nurse Practitioner
Entry requirements
The apprentices/non-apprentices should normally be able to demonstrate;
Evidence of continual professional development (CPD),
Successful completion of degree level modules (40 credits plus)
Around a minimum of 5 years post registration experience.
However, when we look at the applications we are looking for:
Statement of entry or evidence of their professional registration, this could include either Nursing, Midwifery Council ( NMC), Health and Care Professions council( HCPC) , or General Pharmaceutical Council (GPC)
Written confirmation from their employer that support is in place for them to receive clinical supervision throughout the programme with an appropriate and identified clinical supervisor, and where possible education supervisor. We require an employer reference and written confirmation from a nominated clinical supervisor.
We ask for evidence of degree or professional qualification and certificates.
International students residing in the UK who have an appropriate visa to enable them to work in the UK and hold a position of employment with a NHS Trust or organisation who is supporting them to complete the programme are eligible for the programme. However they need to be able to attend once a week and be able to provide evidence of meeting the entry criteria, qualifications and clinical support.
MSc Advanced Clinical Practice Apprenticeship
As above
Up to date DBS check
Evidence of English and Maths L2 qualification (GCSE or equivalent)
Apprenticeship route must also be able to demonstrate;
Achievement of English and mathematics qualification at a minimum of level 2 as per general apprenticeship requirements. This will be confirmed by employers as part of the selection process and agreed by the University on entry to the programme.
Trainee advanced clinical practitioners require the support of their employers. This is essential for apprentices, but supports the clinical development of all advanced practitioners and will be required on application.
Interview
Interviews will be held for our apprenticeship route.
Portfolio
Discussion and professional portfolio review will be needed for non-apprenticeships route.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
N/A
£1,278 per 20 credits
International
N/A
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
N/A
£1,315 per 20 credits
International
N/A
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Careers
The courses have been developed to reflect the philosophies of Advanced Practice within the ethos of current health care provision in the UK, therefore your studies will be fit for purpose and informed by current standards.
You may wish to progress to a doctorate level of study. Many students go on to develop, specialise in, and lead the implementation of health care services including health care improvement.
The course is diverse and innovative, so you could use the skills and knowledge you've gained to work within the public and private sectors. The course ensures that your own personal interests are met as well as those of your employer (if appropriate).
Please note:
those students who do not complete the full 180 master’s level credits may exit with the following;
• PG Cert (60 credits) Health Care Practice
• PG Dip (120 credits) Health Care Practice
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Course: Donna Brewster (Programme Leader)
D.Brewster@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 593796
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.