Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/health-social-community-work-courses/advanced-integrated-urgent-care-practice-postgraduate-certificate-pgcert-online/

Advancing Integrated Urgent Care Practice Postgraduate Certificate - Health, Social and Community Work - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Health, Social and Community Work
Advancing Integrated Urgent Care Practice Postgraduate Certificate
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Advancing Integrated Urgent Care Practice
PG Cert
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 1 year
UK fee
£3,165
(2025/26)
‡
International fee
£3,165
(2025/26)
‡
UCAS code
MB9DX
Start date
September
Location
Online
Course highlights
A postgraduate qualification that can be completed in one year making it ideal for your professional development (CPD)
Course designed to help you advance your practice in remote consultation and further your clinical knowledge whilst working towards specialist or advanced practice roles
Curriculum covers fundamental aspects from remote consultation and triage through to clinical leadership
The programme is closely linked with practice and underpinned by core policy agendas, professional standards and competence frameworks. The integration of theory and practice enables you to apply your learning directly to the workplace, improving your confidence and sense of purpose
An interprofessional programme which attracts practitioners in patient-facing clinical roles from a wide variety of professions such as pharmacists, nurses, midwives, paramedics, physiotherapists, podiatrists and other Allied Health professionals
The Postgraduate Certificate in Advancing Integrated Urgent Care Practice enables you to develop your clinical decision-making skills and knowledge. Alongside advancing practice in settings that require remote consultation, this programme is also suitable for those looking to further their clinical knowledge and skills, and work towards specialist or advanced practice roles in areas such as primary care, out-of-hours care, or community.
As part of the wider remit to develop the clinical workforce, this programme is informed by professional competence frameworks. We recognise students will join the programme with a variety of backgrounds and experience, and the programme aims to set you on the trajectory towards expertise or mastery.
Develop skills in Remote Consultation
This programme provides the opportunity to develop or enhance your remote consultation skills alongside advancing pre-existing clinical skills.
The programme will help you to advance from a relative novice in an emerging role, towards expertise and mastery, by consolidating learning through the guidance and leadership of others. The educational needs of the wider workforce and changing roles within health services require a flexible delivery that enables you to focus on your individual development and professional profile.
The programme aims to
Prepare you to advance your professional autonomy and develop competence as pertinent to your role and area of clinical practice
Encourage a greater awareness of professional roles and scope of practice to facilitate collaborative, integrated practice, networking and team working
Advance your clinical thinking and decision-making skills in your area of practice
Facilitate the identification of your own developmental needs and strategies to address these to progress practice and contribute to the education and support of colleagues
The programme explores consultation skills, professional, legal and ethical considerations, and informed choice for clinical decision-making in the context of person-centred care with awareness of promoting inclusion, upholding human rights and respecting diversity and cultural differences.
Challenges of remote consultation and safeguarding risks are also be covered alongside the specialist skills required to address them.
Throughout the programme, you will develop critical reflective and evaluation skills, essential to academic and professional competence and autonomous practice within your sphere of expertise.
A stepping-stone towards a Postgraduate Diploma
Upon successfully completing this Postgraduate Certificate, if you wish to further your study, you may be able to join the second year of the Postgraduate Diploma in Clinically Enhanced Integrated Urgent Care which is delivered at our
Kedleston Road campus
.
What you will study
The Postgraduate Certificate (PG Cert) in Advancing Integrated Urgent Care Practice comprise three core 20-credit modules, totalling 60 credits at level 7.
We will advise you of your study plan - the running order and availability of the modules - when you are invited to enrol.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
Teaching and Learning
This course is delivered entirely online through our virtual learning environment and student portal where you can access the course materials, learning content and study resources, the online library, your university email account, and virtual student community spaces.
Lecturers will work with you to support your discussions and answer any questions. This support will be through written discussions within the module learning spaces as well as regular live sessions to help you consolidate your learning, support you with your assignments and help you with any questions.
Through
Develop@Derby
, you will be able to access a resource package of live and recorded sessions covering things such as critical writing and reading, researching and referencing.
Practice Based Supervision
Practice based learning is encouraged through critical reflection on practice, the use of competence frameworks and where possible, engagement with clinical supervision. You are encouraged to identify a practice supervisor who can ensure you receive support and oversight of your practice, and that supervision promotes independent learning. Supervisors are expected to be role models and provide feedback on progression and achievement.
However, it is recognised that not all clinical areas will have ready access to supervisors. Learning within the workplace can also occur through critical reflection on practice, group or individual clinical supervision, through the learners’ clinical audits or peer review.
Personal Development Planning (PDP)
Personal Development planning (PDP) is embedded into the programme to enable you to reflect upon your learning, performance and achievement, and to plan for personal, educational or professional development. Opportunities within the programme for PDP include:
A learning needs analysis with your Personal Academic Tutor (PAT)
Application of learning materials and activities to current practice
Critical reflection within modules
Self-assessment against recognised frameworks or models
You will be encouraged to include reflection of your learning within your relevant professional portfolio and / or to map against professional competence frameworks.
Pace of study
The academic year is made up of three 10-week terms, known as trimesters. We recommend around 20 hours of study per week to complete one 20-credit module over a 10-week trimester for the standard study plan.
Assessment method
The course entails practical assessments such as Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCEs) or presentations, as well as course work such as an essay or critical reflection.
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Who will teach you
Jill Gould
Programme Leader
Jill Gould
A Senior Lecturer in health care practice, Jill teaches across postgraduate and post-registration programmes. She is programme leader for Non-medical Prescribing and some online programmes. She also teaches on the community specialist ...
View full staff profile
→
Explore all teaching staff on this course
Entry requirements
Academic Pre-requisites
Applicants should normally have a first degree.
If you do not hold a first degree, you must have successfully undertaken a minimum of one level 6 (undergraduate) or level 7 (postgraduate) module within the past 5 years.
Professional Pre-requisites
In addition to the academic requirements, you will need to be a qualified health professional with active registration as either a Pharmacist (on the General Pharmaceutical Council register), Nurse or Midwife (on the Nursing and Midwifery Register), or a professional on the Health and Care Professions Register.
You will need to be actively practicing in a patient-facing role for a minimum of one day per week.
Recognition of Prior Learning
Recognition of Prior Learning: This programme contains some modules that may have previously been undertaken. These previously acquired credits may be recognised towards the awards. Details and extra guidance are available via
The Standard Assessment regulations
.
Fees and funding
‡
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£1,055
3
£3,165
About your fees
This figure would be the total cost of this course based on the fee in the current academic year. However, please note that fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase if your course lasts longer than one year.
If you are required to undertake any associate study or additional study as a condition of your offer for the programme, please be aware that the cost for this may be in addition to the programme cost stated above.
Flexible payment plans available
Choose from
two payment plan options
:
Pay monthly and only for the modules you are studying
Pay your full course fees upfront and avoid annual increases
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Students should Apply directly to the University..
Apply directly to the University
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
Evidence of your professional registration
A professional reference on letter headed paper stating your job role and how long you have been in the position and signed by a manager or HR department, to demonstrate that you are actively practicing
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Application deadlines
All of our online courses have set start dates throughout the year. We require time to review your application and get back to you with a response before your course starts. Take a look at
information regarding applying for an online course
to see full details of deadlines and term dates.
Careers
Practitioners on this programme are employees or self-employed within health and social care organisations across a diverse range of settings. The programme offers structured professional development for expanding scope of practice within already challenging roles, enabling you to achieve professional qualifications and professional recognition.
The acquisition of the Integrated Urgent Care certificate particularly enhances employment opportunities in the areas of NHS111, Integrated care services, Urgent Care Centres, Urgent Treatment Centres, General Practice (especially if providing out of hours services), and any job role which includes remote consultation.
Personal Academic Tutors will focus on how the learning from the programme is directly related to employability and ongoing career development. The use of personal development planning and mapping against career frameworks helps learners explore and identify a range of potential career directions.
If you are planning to pursue further study, this course enables you to enrol onto the Postgraduate Diploma in Clinically Enhanced Integrated Urgent Care Practice, where you could undertake non-medical prescribing or other clinical modules to gain the Diploma award.
The Integrated Care Practice programme is distinct from a
Masters in Advanced Clinical Practice
, and there is an opportunity to progress to this type of programme and continue expanding clinical competence and scope of practice.
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions