Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/advancing-communication-skills/

Advancing Communication Skills - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Advancing Communication Skills
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Advancing Communication Skills
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
Module details
Module code
7RD501
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
September, January
Duration
12 weeks
Location
Distance learning
Module description
Development of communications skills for healthcare professionals has been identified as 'a continuing process throughout (their) professional careers particularly when moving into specialist areas' (DoH, 2003).
To be able to perform at the forefront of professional practice expertise is required in a range of communications strategies, where they are often utilised in complex, sensitive or contentious situations.
This module will provide the opportunity for you to assess your individual communication skills needs and evaluate relevant theoretical principles and your application to practice. The module will be structured around a needs analysis leading to a negotiated learning contract.
Initially a 'needs analysis' of communications skills will be undertaken. You will then be able to select three specific areas of communications for further study.
Who this course is for
All health professionals, all health and social care professionals, nursing and paramedic, occupational therapy, pharmacists, ultrasonography.
Learning outcomes
On successful completion of this module you will be able to critically evaluate communications strategies and skills pertinent to your individual practice needs.
Entry requirements
You will need to be professionally qualified working within the field of health and social care.
Fees and funding
If you are funding your own study, the module price will be confirmed shortly.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.