Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/aerospace-software-engineering-degree-appenticeship/

Aerospace Software Engineering Degree Appenticeship - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Aerospace Software Engineering Degree Appenticeship
Apply now
Apply now
Apprenticeship Course
Aerospace Software Development Engineer Degree Apprenticeship​
Apply
Apply
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Course level
Level 6
Next course date
September* subject to validation
Duration
4 years
Delivery
Blended learning
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
Lecture/workshop days - dates/times
Block study and day release will be agreed with your employer
Course description
The
​Aerospace Software Development Engineer Degree Apprenticeship
will incorporate a technical element: BSc (Hons) Software Engineering.
​
​The Aerospace Software Development Engineer Degree Apprenticeship
enables the Computing Discipline to offer a degree apprenticeship in an area required by multiple regional aerospace companies.
Industry knowledge of this area and practical experience in undertaking these roles in the industry is essential for embedding the Knowledge, Skills and Behaviours into the programme structure, teaching and learning strategy. The discipline will draw heavily from the advanced level of expertise in the School’s Engineering Discipline and research.
Structure, certificates and assessment
It is important you recognise the relationship between your academic programme and your degree apprenticeship as they are linked together as a degree apprenticeship is a qualification which combines both academic and off and on the job training.  This is a mixture of
on and off the job training.
The University and your employer will plan your 20% off-the-job training so that you can complete all the skills and behaviors for your end-point assessment.  The 20% off-the-job training includes:
The teaching of theory (for example, lectures, role playing, simulation exercises, online learning, and manufacturer training);
Practical training, shadowing, mentoring, industry visits, and attendance at competitions.
Learning support and time spent writing assessments/assignments.
You will be able to use your time at the University towards your 20% off-the-job training.
What you will learn
Apprentices will study the apprenticeship over four academic years below, over 3 semesters per year in years 1 – 3 and 2 semesters in year 4.  The technical element of the programme will be delivered from Markeaton Street from September 2023.
Year 1
Programming
Computational Mathematics
Introduction to Embedded Systems
Computer systems, data structures and data management
Foundations of Embedded Networks, IIOT and Security
Business Management and Regulations
After year 1 you will move to a new apprenticeship standard.
Year 2
Programming language paradigms
Software Engineering
Testing, Validation and Integration
NVQ
Corporate Responsibility and Professional Development
Year 3
Work-based team project
Model-Based Design
Concurrency and communication
Real-time Embedded Systems
NVQ and Gateway Prep
Defining a project linked to KSB and Gateway
Year 4
Data mining and foundations of AI
Individual Project
End Point Assessment Prep
End Point Assessment
Entry requirements
The following broad criteria will apply for entry to the academic programme are:
5 GCSEs all at Grade 4/C or above to include Maths and English
You will be employed by a company within the aerospace software engineering sector
Qualifications 3 A levels at C or above (or equivalent) including a STEM subject and 2 others
Extended BTEC Level 3 at DDM
T-Level at Distinction
BTECs and T-Level qualifications should be in STEM
Your employer may also set their own selection criteria
The selection of participants is consistent with the University’s equal opportunities policies and sensitive to legal obligations to avoid discrimination on the basis of gender, race or disability
Such requirements are a guide – we will also consider all the information that you've included in your application and we want to see that you're enthusiastic and motivated.
Fees and funding
The cost will be paid for by the employer. The cost of the apprenticeship will normally be in line with the Levy Band £27,000, but individual agreements will be considered depending on student numbers and the involvement of employers.
How to apply
You will need to apply through your employer. However, you can find out more from us - please see below for contact information.
Empower your workforce with block bookings
Take advantage of a short courses block booking to upskill your employees. Our short courses run on-campus and online and include new legislation and other up-to-the-minute issues. Get in touch today and we will tailor a package to meet the needs of your business.
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Apprenticeship Hub
Email:
apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk
Phone:
01332 593092