Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/an-introduction-to-art-therapy-supervision/

An Introduction to Art Therapy Supervision - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
An Introduction to Art Therapy Supervision
Apply now
Apply now
Short course
An Introduction to Art Therapy Supervision
Apply
Apply
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Learning outcomes
Benefits
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Module details
Module code
7TA516
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
September
Duration
6 months
Location
Britannia Mill, Derby Campus
Tutorial dates/times
4pm - 5pm on teaching dates
Module description
You will have opportunities to gain an in-depth understanding of a wide range of relevant theoretical models of supervision. Additionally, you will engage in supervising art therapists or art therapy trainees; in support of which you will participate in group supervision.
Studio-based reflective practice offers opportunities to consider the role of art-making and images in practice and for reflection.
The syllabus includes:
The history and development of supervision
Models of supervision
The supervisory frame
Group dynamics in supervision
Unconscious processes in supervision
Working with the image in supervision
Authority, power, and ethical issues in supervision
Diversity and Inclusion issues in supervision
Assessment in supervision
The context of supervision (including supervision in the public and private sectors)
Endings in supervision
Inter-professional working in supervision
Throughout you will be encouraged to integrate theory and practice in order to enable your development of critical thinking and critical reflection on practice.
On completion of the module, you will hopefully be able to employ skills to conduct advanced technical and specialised activity. You will have had opportunities to understand and take personal accountability for related decision making in supervision and to demonstrate a deep understanding of theory and practice. It is hoped that you will then be able to:
Effectively manage a small supervision case load
Critically reflect at depth upon supervisory practice for art therapy
Critically evaluate relevant theories that underpin supervisory technique
Who this course is for
This course is for qualified art therapists, psychotherapists, counsellors and mental health professionals who are, or intend to be, actively involved in the clinical supervision of qualified art therapists or art therapists in training.
Course team
Module Leader Kirsty McTaggart is a qualified Art Psychotherapist who has worked in a variety of settings with children and adults in education, the voluntary sector and mental health services.  She is currently the Programme Leader on the MA Art Therapy offered by the University of Derby.
Structure, certificates and assessment
How you will learn
Contact sessions include lectures, seminars, workshops and small group supervision of students’ supervision practice.
The remainder of the learning hours involves time spent providing supervision; self-assessment and reflection; and engaging in self-directed learning.
A minimum of 30 hours overall contact time
Teaching on a wide range of relevant theoretical models of supervision (approximately 10 hours)
Supervision of supervisory practice (approximately 10 hours)
Studio based reflective practice (approximately 10 hours)
Self-assessment.
How you will be assessed
You will be assessed via participation in the supervision of a supervision group, submission of a reflective log and a brief report relating to your supervision practice.
Learning outcomes
Effectively manage a small supervision case load
Critically reflect at depth upon supervisory practice for art therapy
Critically evaluate relevant theories that underpin supervisory technique.On successful completion of the course you will have gained a Certificate of Attendance and also 20 credits at Level 7. Your credits can count towards the Postgraduate Certificate in Art Therapy Supervision should you wish to continue your studies.
Benefits
On successful completion of the course you will have gained a Certificate of Attendance and also 20 credits at Level 7. Your credits can count towards a Postgraduate Certificate in Art Therapy Supervision which is in the process of development should you wish to continue your studies in the future.
Entry requirements
Ideally applicants will have a minimum of three years post qualification clinical experience and hold current professional registration or accreditation with
HCPC
,
UKCP
,
BACP
or similar
A suitable reference will be required either from your current Clinical Supervisor or employer
All applicants will be required to provide clinical supervision to less experienced art therapist colleagues or art therapy trainees for the duration of the module
Places upon the course are allocated upon a first come first served basis
Fees and funding
If you are funding your own study, the module price will be confirmed shortly.
How to apply
Level 7
LBR applications
If you are applying for an LBR funded place, please Apply directly to the University.
Find out more about LBR and whether you are eligible for an LBR course
Apply directly to the University
Self-funded applications
If you are financing your study yourself, please contact Admissions on
01332 591167
or email
askadmissions@derby.ac.uk
to secure your place
Empower your workforce with block bookings
Take advantage of a short courses block booking to upskill your employees. Our short courses run on-campus and online and include new legislation and other up-to-the-minute issues. Get in touch today and we will tailor a package to meet the needs of your business.
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Course: Kirsty McTaggart (Programme Leader)
k.mctaggart@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 594016
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Other courses you might like
Art Therapy MA