Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/online/an-introduction-to-emotional-resilience/

An Introduction to Emotional Resilience - Online short courses - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Online short courses
An Introduction to Emotional Resilience
Book now
Book now
Short course
An Introduction to Emotional Resilience
Book now
Book now
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Online course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Learning outcomes
Benefits
Fees and funding
Course requirements
Online course details
Price
£249 (includes VAT)
Next course date
Open now
Duration
4 units, 5 hours of study per unit
CPD hours
20 CPD hours
Delivery
Self-guided online learning
Location
Online
Online course description
Emotional resilience is the ability to adapt to, manage, and even flourish in stressful situations throughout life. For many years, professionals believed it was a trait you were born with, but now after years of research it is apparent that it is something that can be learned.
This short course, developed for the University of Derby by registered social workers, will provide you with the key concepts and ideas that underpin emotional resilience and how it develops. Having an understanding of emotional resilience will enable you to develop coping strategies to deal with difficult situations in your own emotional and professional life. By the end of the course you will feel confident enough to apply your learning to your own situation and to others through reflective supervision.
Who is the course for?
This course is for anyone seeking to develop their understanding of emotional resilience, through the learning of key concepts and personal reflection. Anyone experiencing or working in difficult and challenging situations will benefit from this short course. However, it will particularly complement and enrich the knowledge of those working directly with others, including:
Health and social care professionals
Business leaders
Emergency service workers
Education professionals
This professional development course will provide you with:
Immersive content designed to develop your knowledge and challenging your understanding of the concept of emotional resilience
Reflective models to illuminate this learning, using a variety of theoretical frameworks
A fundamental introduction to the different ways emotional resilience can be developed or learned, allowing you to understand how you may utilise it for yourself, or help others through reflective supervision
Structure, certificates and assessment
You will study this course 100% online. It comprises a range of activities including:
Engaging with examples of emotional resilience within popular culture
Reflecting on your own lived experiences to illuminate your learning
Using different theoretical reflective models that you can utilise in day to day life
Responding to different scenarios in a context of emotional resilience
Interacting with a role play to develop your understanding of Reflective Supervision
There is no obligation for you to undertake every activity, but being involved in all aspects of the course will help you to achieve the learning objectives that have been outlined in the course.
There is no graded assessment. Instead, you will receive a badge for each completed Unit, and then upon completion of the whole course, you will be awarded with an e-certificate.
An accredited provider of the CPD Standards Office
We are proud to be an accredited provider of the
CPD Standards Office
for our online short courses and free courses, demonstrating that they conform to CPD best practice and are appropriate for inclusion in a formal CPD record.
Course units
The course is made up of 4 units, each will require approximately 5 hours of study.
Unit content is guided by professionally recognised theory and evidence:
Unit 1 - What is Emotional Resilience?
Within the first unit you will explore the definition of Emotional Resilience. Emotional Resilience is a term that you may be familiar with, but quite unsure about its meaning; using examples from popular culture, you will reflect on the importance of emotional resilience and the many forms it can take.
Unit 2 - How to Develop Emotional Resilience
In the second unit, you will be introduced to theoretical perspectives relating to how emotional resilience can develop, from a focus on individual traits and internal/external resources, to studying emotional resilience as a fluid process, influenced by experiential factors.
Unit 3 - Reflective Frameworks for Emotional Resilience
Unit 3 focuses on several models of reflection that can assist and structure the process of reflecting on a learned experience. An interactive scenario exercise will allow you to put these models into practise, applying knowledge and enhancing your reflective skills.
Unit 4 - Reflective Supervision
In the final unit, you will be introduced to the concept of reflective supervision, with access to a role play to enrich your understanding. You will also have the opportunity to consider the possible emotional impacts and benefits of reflective supervision in relation to developing emotional resilience.
Learning outcomes
Learn the definition and key ideas underpinning emotional resilience
Discover how and when emotional resilience can develop
Be equipped with strategies for becoming more resilient
Apply knowledge of emotional resilience to reflective supervision
Benefits
A flexible course that fits in with working and family life
This learner led course is open for continuous enrolment, which means it can be studied at any time and delivered 100% online, allowing you to manage your studies around work and family commitments. This is a self-guided course which involves reflective activities to assess subject understanding. Our online short courses are designed to be intellectually stimulating, thought provoking and rewarding.
Fees and funding
Fee:
£249 (includes VAT)
Course requirements
The course is widely available for anyone to take part in regardless of age, location or education status.
However, there are some basic requirements. You will need access to the internet whether it is on your PC, tablet, mobile or other electronic devices, as well as a valid email address to register with our online learning environment in order to take part in the course.
You will need to agree to the terms and conditions before you start the course which will be available when you enrol.
Learners should have an understanding of the English Language and the ability to study in English.
How to enrol
All of our short courses are delivered through an easy-to-use online learning platform, which you can enrol from directly.
Contact us
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Course policies
Learner charter
Cancellation policy
Code of conduct for learner discipline
Terms and conditions