Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/nursing-courses/anaesthetic-practice-certificate-of-continuing-professional-development-online/

Anaesthetic Practice Certificate of Continuing Professional Development - Nursing - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Nursing
Anaesthetic Practice Certificate of Continuing Professional Development
Apply now
Apply now
Undergraduate Course
Anaesthetic Practice Certificate of Continuing Professional Development
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 2 x 10-week terms
UK fee
£1,750
(2024/25)
‡
Start dates
September, May
Location
Online
The highlights
Unique to this course, the academic study takes place online
Taught by a team of enthusiastic, experienced registered Operating Department Practitioners
Our course will equip you with the skills to become a dynamic, confident and competent anaesthetic practitioner
Learn on a course with a 100% student satisfaction rate (NSS, 2022)
With a focus on resilience and safety, this 20-week course encourages you, as an Anaesthetic Practitioner working in the UK perioperative environment, to build and reflect on your knowledge and experience in relation to anaesthetic practice to enable you to deliver high-quality care across a variety of specialities.
Service users come to theatres with many complex needs. Technology and skills continue to improve, continuously advancing what can be done in terms of both anaesthetic and surgical intervention. The higher degree of complexity though, the higher the level of planning and safety measures are required. Anaesthetic Practitioners will become involved in cases of increasing complexity and must, therefore, ensure that a safe environment is maintained and that they themselves remain resilient and compassionate when providing safe patient care.
Course content
Advanced resuscitation including advanced airway management, anaesthetic complications and emergencies, rapid sequence induction, failed intubation procedure and advanced Life Support in the Perioperative environment
Risk management in the anaesthetic environment including principles of risk management and hazards in the clinical area, human factors and environmental emergencies
Service user monitoring including invasive/haemodynamic monitoring, interpretation of ECGs and doppler
Health and Social Policy including implications of national and local health policy initiatives on perioperative environment
Anaesthetic equipment including ventilators and modes of ventilation, care of ventilated service user and managing a service user with a tracheostomy
Care of service users with specific needs including paediatric anaesthesia, anaesthesia in obstetrics, elderly, anaesthesia for service user with mental health problems or learning disabilities, anaesthetic management of the obese service user
Regional anaesthesia including regional blocks and epidural and spinal anaesthesia
Pain management including routes of pain relief, pharmacological, adjuncts to pain relief and alternative pain management strategies
Complications associated with anaesthesia including common and not-so-common complications associated with general, local and regional anaesthesia
Venepuncture and Intravenous cannulation including relevant legislation, site and equipment selection, anatomy & physiology, potential complications and errors, infection control, the venepuncture procedure, the cannulation procedure, vascular and arterial access
Responding to emergencies including assisting the anaesthetist, scope of practice, situational awareness, managing the environment and managing specific emergencies such as anaphylaxis, major haemorrhage, suxamethonium apnoea and malignant hyperpyrexia
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
This course is completed over two 10-week trimesters and is delivered through online learning alongside your supervised clinical practice undertaken within the workplace. The combination of online academic study (theory/ knowledge) and work-based learning will enable you to develop appropriate skills and competencies relevant to the role of the anaesthetic practitioner.
There will be 1/2 virtual classrooms over the 10 week trimester and if you are unable to attend you will be able to download the session to view in your own time.
Pace of study
This part-time course (40 credits) will run over two 10-week trimesters. For each trimester, you'll complete 20 credits by working through the study materials, combined with self-directed study, equating to one unit per week. We recommend approximately 20 hours of study per week should be spent on each unit.
Assessment method
Your competence to perform the role of an Anaesthetic Practitioner will be assessed through:
Submission of a 3000-word written piece of work
Submission of a clinical portfolio demonstrating practical competence at performing anaesthetic skills required for the role of Anaesthetic Practitioner, in line with current professional guidance
You must be supervised in clinical practice and have protected / dedicated time to perform the role of Anaesthetic Practitioner
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Who will teach you
Ann Bates
Programme Leader
Ann Bates
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
To apply, you will need to meet the following criteria:
you must be a registered practitioner with current and unrestricted registration with a relevant professional regulatory body (e.g. HCPC or NMC)
Be employed in a UK based perioperative environment for the duration of the course.
(The amount of time that you spend in the anaesthetic environment will be decided by your employer and can be discussed with the University - the time must be enough to enable you to achieve both the academic and practical aspects of this course.)
Hold a degree or Diploma in Higher Education (or equivalent) relevant to your professional qualification
Evidence of recent study (within the last three years) or ability to study at a degree level. If you are unable to supply evidence to support this, then you will be asked to complete a reflective piece of work related to your experience working in the perioperative environment and this will form part of your application
Hold a current DBS. (Your employer is also responsible for ensuring that adequate DBS (Disclosure & Barring Service) checks have been carried out.)
Managers Approval Form
completed by your theatre manager/ line manager confirming their support and your suitability to undertake these extended duties and be able to meet the learning outcomes for this course
Your manager will need to confirm that:
you are working in a Perioperative setting in the UK and will be for the duration of the course
your employer supports for you to undertake this course including suitable placement opportunities within you organisation
you will have access to continued learning opportunities to develop clinical competence in the role of the anaesthetic practitioner
you have at least six months experience as a registered nurse working within the perioperative environment
an experienced, registered & knowledgeable mentor from your organisation will support you during your placements, including your mentor’s PIN numbers
that supervision will be provided whilst you are working in the anaesthetic area whilst on this course
that you are in good health, fit and able to undertake this course and work in the area of anaesthetics
Please note:
Confirmation of named Supervisor and additional assigned assessors (including their support) will be required at the start of module study, by the module leader.
English language qualifications
If English is not your first language, an IELTS of 7.0 (or equivalent) in all areas is required.
Find out more about our English language requirements
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
Modules
Cost
UK
1 x 40 credits
£1,750
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
Modules
Cost
UK
1 x 40 credits
£1,850
About your fees
This figure would be the total cost of this course based on the fee in the current academic year. However, please note that fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase if your course lasts longer than one year.
If you are required to undertake any associate study or additional study as a condition of your offer for the programme, please be aware that the cost for this may be in addition to the programme cost stated above.
Flexible payment plans available
Choose from
two payment plan options
:
Pay monthly and only for the modules you are studying
Pay your full course fees upfront and avoid annual increases
Undergraduate funding options
Depending on where you are from in the UK or EU, and on your pace of study, you may be eligible for an
undergraduate student loan
. Accessible through Student Finance, this is a non-income based loan to meet the cost of tuition fees.
If you are considering applying for a student loan, please also see our additional guidance on
Loans for Online Students
.
If you already hold an honours degree, and you are looking to re-skill or up-skill, you may still be eligible for a loan to study this course.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Professional Body Registration Number
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications (Diploma or degree level)*
Current CV / Employment history
Evidence of your current DBS
Completed
Managers Approval Form
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
​​Surgical First Assistant​ Certificate of Credit
Operating Department Practitioner Apprenticeship
Perioperative Practice (Top-Up) BSc (Hons)
Nursing Studies (Top-Up) BSc (Hons)