Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/art-design-courses/animation-ba-hons-foundation/

Animation with Foundation Year BA (Hons) - Art and Design - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Art and Design
Animation with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Animation with Foundation Year
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
WW26
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
On our BA (Hons) Animation programme, you’ll experiment with the latest digital software, learn about the principles of animation, produce distinctive animated films and develop the professional awareness you need to launch your career. Working with experienced teaching staff in our newly refurbished, dedicated production studio, you will gain the knowledge and expertise you need through traditional and digital animation practice.
You will experiment with a broad range of methods, materials and processes, from traditional hand-drawn animation to 3D digital techniques.
The course will encourage you to select from and combine methods in pursuing your individual interests, developing a distinctive approach to animation production and helping you to realise your own unique vision.
You will explore the use of animation for storytelling, social commentary, personal agenda films, documentary, music videos, live performance, broadcasting and advertising.
Employable Graduates – we’re ranked 15th highest amongst all UK universities and 12th for English institutions with 96% of graduates in work or further study within six months of completing their degree: HESA 2016.
Our varied and exciting curriculum includes drawing, sequential image making, 2D and 3D computer animation, character development, narrative, timing, editing, sound and the historical and contemporary context of animation. Animation plays an increasingly important role in the messages that are part of our daily lives, not only on our film and television screens but also on the internet and mobile devices. The programme provides the ideal preparation for many careers in Animation both as an independent filmmaker or part of a wider creative team.
External live projects, competitions and exhibitions will help you get your work noticed and give you experience of professional practice. In your final year, you will produce a final graduation film to send to a range of national and international animation and film festivals. The course features visits from high-profile industry professionals, with a chance to be inspired by leading practitioners such as BAFTA nominated animation studio
Fettle
, who have visited the course to talk about their practice and to advise our third year students about how to begin a career in the creative industries.
Top
20
for academic support
Computer Games and Animation - National Student Survey 2024
Top
20
for career prospects
Animation & Game Design - Guardian University Guide 2025
100
%
of students agreed that the course challenges them to achieve their best work
BA (Hons) Animation - National Student Survey 2024
Student success
After graduating with First-Class Honours Nathan Addai continued studying at Postgraduate level at Derby and has been working on a multi-faceted media project called Mental Roots which focuses on black men’s mental health. Nathan has been using his skills in animation and podcasting to tell real stories of black people’s mental health journeys and has recently completed production for an animated short film. It was funded and supported by Rural Media's New Creatives scheme, and was premiered through BBC Introducing Arts on BBC Four.
Watch ‘Mental Roots’
and stay updated with the
Mental Roots brand
.
Nathan Addai, Mental Roots
Below you will find a selection of student work produced on the BA (Hons) Animation programme. To see more student work please visit the course vimeo page-
Animation - University of Derby
.
View Animation showreel video transcript
Where you will learn
You'll have access to a studio for workshops and independent working, as well as a drawing room and animation/3D studio. You can also use the printmaking facilities, which include mono printing, drypoint, screen printing and solar etching.
Our animation studio is equipped with professional-standard facilities for the production of digital and drawn animation including:
Animation light boxes
Kaiser rostrum stands
Computer labs installed with a range of animation specific software
You’ll use high-specification iMacs and PCs with the latest versions of software used by the industry and be able to hire a range of hardware from our
Media Loan Hub
, including Wacom Cintiq tablets, HD cameras, digital sound recorders, lighting rigs and green screen set ups.
Our student gallery
Take a look at our
gallery of Animation students' work
.
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
The emphasis throughout the programme is on practical project work which integrates technical, analytical, intellectual and organisational aspects of professional practice. You’ll also enjoy an exciting variety of other teaching and learning methods, including workshop practice, demonstrations, group critiques, field studies, cultural visits, lectures, seminars, individual tutorials, work checks, reports and assignments.
As a full-time student, you’ll be expected to attend on a daily basis, according to the schedule of sessions provided by each module leader, with specific periods of time allocated to self-directed study.  As the course progresses, you’ll take more responsibility for independent study as you prepare for and complete your final project.
We offer an Art School experience which involves mixed media approaches and a wide range of visual experiences and workshops.
You’ll be taught in a professional studio environment supported by the latest online teaching and learning facilities. It is the ideal setting for you to experiment with state-of-the-art equipment and resources that are constantly updated to reflect industry standards.
We encourage your independent thinking as you learn all aspects of the production of animation – including sound, lighting and editing. You’ll also have access to our sound and film studios which feature professional level video and sound recording resources, including green screen equipment, to help you develop your personal way of making animation.
You’ll explore not only how to create animations but also how to develop a unique aesthetic and personal voice, building a designer’s approach to animation. Workshops in 3D, drawing, printing and design will challenge your visual approach and feed into your technical understanding.
How you will be assessed
Assessment is based 100% on coursework, which can include a showreel and promotional materials to launch yourself as a professional animator.
People you will meet
You'll be taught by the following members of our teaching team who each have their own individual specialisms and research interests:
Stuart Poynton
Marc Bosward
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Cameron Jinks
Programme Leader
Cameron Jinks
Cameron is a Senior Lecturer in Commercial Photography.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
BCC
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
Offers will be made initially based on your application, including predicted grades and/or grades you have already achieved. You may be given the opportunity, within your offer letter, to submit a portfolio. If you submit a strong portfolio we will make you an unconditional offer, to reflect the quality of your work and your potential.
Additional entry requirements
Portfolio: Recommended -
view portfolio details
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
All software used on the course is available on the University computers in the dedicated studio spaces
The programme uses Adobe Creative Suite which is installed on all Macs in MS102 and MS012 at Markeaton Street and students are provided with an individual Adobe Creative Cloud subscription for home use
To support their professional and skills development, students are provided with a subscription to LinkedIn Learning which offers over 13,000 courses and tutorials, including professional accreditations, in a wide range of creative, business & technology disciplines
Materials (for drawing and group work related activities) are provided for set coursework tasks
Access to all resources in Visual Communication studio and related workshop areas (printmaking, digital print)
Compulsory study visits, participation in University Degree Show and a London Graduate Show
Additional access to wider University Arts' facilities including equipment loan store and other facilities, such as digital print workshops
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Students should purchase a practice folder and an outcomes folder (approx. £50 each)
USB Flash Drive (approx. £10 - £15 depending on brand and storage capacity)
A2/A3 Portfolio (£5 - £50)
A4 Sketchbook (approx. £10 each)
Printing of design work - print bureau prices range from £0.65 - £55 depending on size and paper quality. However, a minimum expectation would be approx. £25 - £50 for printing these materials
Optional costs not included in your fees
No none-curricular trips are currently included. If future events are of specific interest to Animation then we would publish these as extracurricular, none compulsory trips. UK Based from approx. £10 - £100 depending on event and distance and from Derby; International (European) approx. £250 - £600 depending on event location
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Our graduates have gone on to establish successful animation studios or to work for major TV production companies. There are wide-ranging career opportunities for animators in advertising, film, television, games design, web design, creative studios, education and the freelance world.
The course offers you the ideal preparation for careers in this ever-changing market where you can challenge the use and production of animation. Because we take a contemporary view of animation and its applications, you will showcase your work to potential employers through a variety of platforms, advertising and mobile devices.
You could also consider our
MA/MDes Design
if you would like to take your studies to postgraduate level.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Animation BA (Hons)
Illustration BA (Hons)
Design MA/MDes