Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/public-health-social-care-courses/applied-social-work-ba-hons/

Applied Social Work BA (Hons) - Public Health and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Public Health and Social Care
Applied Social Work BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Applied Social Work
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
L510
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Top
25
for student satisfaction
Social Work subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
96
%
of students agreed the course challenged them to do their best work
BA (Hons) Applied Social Work - National Student Survey 2024
92
%
of Students agreed the course is intellectually stimulating
BA (Hons) Applied Social Work - National Student Survey 2024
Top
5
for satisfaction with teaching
Guardian University Guide 2024
This applied course paves the way for you to register and practise as a qualified social worker, reaching out to help people from many different backgrounds to assess and tackle their problems.
‌Gain the skills, knowledge and professional qualification you need for one of the most worthwhile careers of all
Meet high standards: this course is approved by Social Work England, so you can be confident about the quality of the training you receive
Build a dynamic portfolio of skills and theories to work with your clients in a variety of settings
Gain vital experience on practice placements, where you can put theory into practice and increase your confidence on the frontline of social work
Develop your capacity to work flexibly in multi-agency teams, thanks to our strong focus on inter-professional learning
Be inspired by our experienced, enthusiastic academic team who put teaching first and are dedicated to your success
91.5% of students were in graduate-level jobs six months after graduating
If you already hold a degree and are looking to qualify as a social worker, find out more about our
MA Social Work
.
We prepare you to work as a confident, caring and highly skilled social worker in a variety of settings. This wide-ranging course equips you with the skills, knowledge and theories you need to make a difference from day one in your role.
Join a new generation of social workers
Becoming a social worker will challenge you in ways few other careers ever will. You need resilience and flexibility to manage complex cases, but the rewards are immense as you make a genuine difference to people’s lives.
Your role could involve supporting young people who need protection, homeless children and adults, people with mental health problems, teenagers in care, or people with drug or alcohol dependency.
You will learn how to form effective partnerships with individuals, families and other professionals and will become skilled in assessing, interpreting and addressing people’s individual problems. Our emphasis is on helping you to develop empowering, supportive and focused solutions to those problems.
Gain professional credibility
Because our course is approved and accredited by
Social Work England
, you will be working to the standards set out by the regulatory body for Social Workers, giving you the ideal preparation for real workplace environments.
Plus, when you graduate, you will be able to register with
Social Work England
to practise as a qualified social worker, as long as you meet their requirements.
Placements to inspire and challenge you
This course features substantial periods of work placement so that you can apply the theory you are learning to practice. You will have 80 days of placement during stage two and 90 days of placement in stage three, all providing you with effective, practical and meaningful experience which will stand you in good stead for your future career. Placement hours are subject to change.
Thanks to our strong professional partnerships with local and regional employers, we offer opportunities for you to work with adults and children in both voluntary and statutory settings. Our students have, for instance, been placed in local authorities with teams specialising in children and families, adult social care, disabled children and looked after children.
They have also worked with child and adolescent mental health teams in hospitals and have undertaken voluntary sector placements focusing on issues such as housing, substance abuse, sexual abuse and domestic abuse.
Pursue your specialist interests
We offer opportunities for you to undertake projects which match your professional ambitions and personal interests. The Independent Study module provides a chance for you to explore a particular theme in depth and our students have produced thought-provoking research into a wide range of topics.
Recent examples have seen them investigate how dementia patients are institutionalised and marginalised in the UK; how social workers can effectively intervene with sibling sexual abuse; how mental illness can affect personal relationships; and the impact parental alcohol dependency can have on adolescents.
Support from our expert team
You’ll be taught by a supportive, enthusiastic and inspiring team, all of whom are qualified social workers. They offer a wealth of professional experience, sharing practical insights which will keep your learning up to date and relevant.
Their experience spans all aspects of social work, including areas such as loss and grief, poverty, inequality, housing and homelessness, learning and physical disabilities, social exclusion and mental health. In some cases, they combine their teaching with continuing social work caseloads and roles with leading professional bodies such as the Care Quality Commission.
A dynamic learning experience
We are committed to enriching your learning, offering a range of activities such as guest lectures by leading professionals, visits to various workplace settings and work shadowing opportunities which form part of our Skills Days.
Among new initiatives on the course, we have launched a scheme where students from the second and third stages of the degree act as mentors to first year students.
Working together to learn from each other
Successful social work professionals have to be adaptable, versatile and prepared to work in multi-agency teams. You will therefore have opportunities to learn with, and from, students from other disciplines through our Inter-Professional Learning agenda.
This is important in preparing you to work alongside other professionals after graduation so that you can achieve positive outcomes for clients. We adopt this approach right from the start of your course, where you will attend a major conference with other new Health and Social Care students representing courses ranging from nursing to counselling.
In tune with latest developments
We’re proud to say that our courses are closely mapped against the needs of health and social care employers which ensures that our curriculum is always up to date and relevant.
We respond to national developments such as latest government policies and, as a result, some of the information about our courses may change.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
This course is exciting and challenging. You’ll undertake 170 days on placement to gain experience and develop your skills. You’ll be taught in a number of ways, including activity-based group work, lectures, tutorials, seminars and workshops. You’ll also complete your own self-directed study.
How you're assessed
You’ll be assessed in a variety of ways, including written assignments, presentations, one exam, written reports, assessments, placement portfolios, court experiential learning, role play and professional discussions.
We are constantly introducing new and effective methods of assessment to enrich your learning experience. We have just, for instance, introduced a VIVA approach – which involves a spoken assessment – for two modules.
Who you will meet
You'll be taught by an experienced team, which includes:
Joanne Smith (Programme Leader)
Catherine John-Baptiste
(Admissions Tutor)
Michael Balkow
Tonimarie Benaton
Jennifer Brown
Vita Snowden
Cynthia Tuuli
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
Additional entry requirements
Interview and written test: Yes
view interview details
An
Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service certificate
cleared by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this once you have applied
An
Occupational Health Assessment
and Clearance by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this when required
To be considered for interview your Personal Statement must evidence the following:
An understanding of the roles and responsibilities of UK based social workers
Relevant social care/work experience (paid or unpaid).* You need to state how this relates to social work. You may want to refer to Social Work England/BASW
Professional Capabilities Framework
domains to do this
The length of time you have spent gaining this experience and how it makes you suitable for undertaking the social work course at this time
*Experience can take the form of voluntary or paid work in which you are able to demonstrate interaction with children and adults in a range of diverse settings. For example, this could be acting as a peer mentor, working within a nursery setting, having caring responsibilities for a sibling or parent, and understanding and applying safeguarding measures or working in a care home and supporting residents with welfare needs.
If you do not meet the entry requirements for this course, you may be considered for the
BA (Hons) Applied Social Work with Foundation Year
.
To be considered for the BA (Hons) Applied Social Work with Foundation Year, students should apply for this course and our admissions team will get in touch with you after the interview stage.
Learn more about courses with Foundation Years
English language requirements
Non-UK applicants should achieve a minimum score of 7.0 overall in the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) assessment (or an equivalent assessment).
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
Bursaries
Any undergraduate social work bursaries awarded to the University of Derby (by NHSBSA) will be allocated according to the following criteria: performance from the Year One module –
Preparation for Practice Learning
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
DBS check
Hepatitis B vaccination
Optional costs not included in your fees
Professional membership with Social Work England required to practice. More details can be found
www.socialworkengland.org.uk
BASW optional membership, please see BASW website for their current membership rates
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
There is a growing demand for qualified social workers who can excel in a variety of fields, so this course opens doors to an exciting and diverse range of career opportunities.
Your role could involve addressing issues such as child protection, mental health, disability and youth justice or working with vulnerable or older adults. You could work in settings such as hospitals, day centres, social services, residential centres, schools and the voluntary sector.
Once you are a qualified social worker, you'll be expected to continue your professional development so you can keep up to date with current trends in the sector. You could also choose to specialise in particular areas of practice once you have qualified.
Careers support
Our Skills Days include sessions where we invite our partner agencies to talk about issues such as effective job applications and interview skills. Former students who have secured employment will also share insights and advice with you.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Child and Family Health and Wellbeing BSc (Hons)
Social Work MA
Health and Social Care BA (Hons)
Chat to our students
−