Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/public-health-social-care-courses/social-work-applied-ba-hons-foundation/

Applied Social Work with Foundation Year BA (Hons)  - Public Health and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Public Health and Social Care
Applied Social Work with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Applied Social Work with Foundation Year
BA (Hons)
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
80
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
L51F
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
92
%
of Students agreed the course is intellectually stimulating
BA (Hons) Applied Social Work - National Student Survey 2024
Top
5
for satisfaction with teaching
Guardian University Guide 2024
96
%
of students agreed the course challenged them to do their best work
BA (Hons) Applied Social Work - National Student Survey 2024
This applied course paves the way for you to register and practise as a qualified social worker, reaching out to help people from many different backgrounds to assess and tackle their problems. Achieve your ambitions by studying on this four-year course which includes a foundation year.
A good application/performance will be taken into account if you do not meet the criteria/offer conditions
Build a dynamic portfolio of skills and theories to work with your clients in a variety of settings
Be inspired by our experienced, enthusiastic academic team who put teaching first and are dedicated to your success
The Foundation Year course leads on to the full Applied Social Work degree that is accredited by approved and accredited by Social Work England meaning you will be able to practise as a qualified social worker, as long as you meet their requirements.
Please note that it is not possible to apply directly to the following course. For this foundation year course, it is only possible to attain a place if you do not get the grades expected having been provided with an offer for the BSc equivalent.
Beginning with a foundation year
Starting at foundation level is ideal if it has been a while since you were in formal education; are planning a career change; would benefit from a more gradual introduction to university level study; or do not meet the entry requirements to join our three-year honours degree directly.
It gives you an insight into working in health and social care environments, as well as supporting you to develop the skills you need to achieve your goals.
On completion of the Foundation Year you will then commence study on the full
Applied Social Work
degree.
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
80
A Level
CDD
T Level
Pass (C or above in the core)
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
IELTS overall score at a minimum of 6.5; with at least IELTS 6.0 in each band (Reading, Listening, Speaking, Writing) or another Secure English Language Test (SELT) at CEFR level B2 or above.
Additional entry requirements
Interview: Yes
view interview details
An
Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service certificate
cleared by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this once you have applied
An
Occupational Health Assessment
and Clearance by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this when required
Applicants are required to have experience in social care. This may be paid or unpaid work, personal experience of caring for someone with social care needs or being a service user themselves
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
N/A
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
DBS check
Hepatitis B vaccination
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Students pay the first £5 of your travel to placements. Further costs can be claimed back through the University
Careers
There is a growing demand for qualified social workers who can excel in a variety of fields, so this course opens doors to an exciting and diverse range of career opportunities.
Our graduates from
BA (hons) Applied Social Work
have gone into child protection, mental health, disability and youth justice or working with vulnerable or older adults. You could work in settings such as hospitals, day centres, social services, residential centres, schools and the voluntary sector.
Once you are a qualified social worker, you'll be expected to continue your professional development so you can keep up to date with current trends in the sector. You could also choose to specialise in particular areas of practice once you have qualified.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Health and Social Care with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Youth Work and Community Development with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Child and Family Health and Wellbeing with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Chat to our students
−