Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/acoustics-courses/applied-acoustics-msc/

Applied Acoustics MSc - Acoustics - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Acoustics
Applied Acoustics MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Applied Acoustics
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 1 year
UK fee
£3,000 for 60 credit Independent Project
(2024/25)
International fee
£3,115 for 60 credit Independent Project
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, January
If you’re a professional acoustician, you can top up your existing qualifications to achieve a highly regarded masters degree – all by distance learning. You'll need to have studied the IOA Diploma in Acoustics to study this MSc top-up.
Study full-time or part-time at a leading centre with over 30 years’ experience of delivering acoustics courses
Boost your career prospects by gaining a recognised masters degree which will set you apart within the profession
Build on your basic acoustics knowledge and gain the high-level skills to review different methods of noise assessment and control
Adopt interdisciplinary approaches to solving acoustic problems and draw on real-world case studies
Undertake work-based projects which are tailored to your current role and the needs of your employer
Enjoy all the benefits and convenience of distance learning, fitting in your studies around your work and home life
Build on your experience
This course offers a convenient fast-track route to a masters degree for professionals who already hold the Institute of Acoustics (IOA) Diploma in Acoustics and Noise Control.
You will enter the MSc at the masters stage, so your studies will centre on a research-based investigation – either practical or desktop-based – culminating in a thesis on an acoustics topic of your choice.
Throughout this independent study, you’ll be supervised and supported by an academic advisor.
Meaningful and relevant research
If – like most of our students – you are already employed in the acoustics field, the skills and knowledge you gain on the course will be directly relevant to your day-to-day work.
You can choose to undertake a work-based study which is of benefit to both you and your organisation. We will liaise with you and your employer to ensure that your study meets the right academic criteria for an MSc award.
If you are not currently employed in a noise-related field, we can provide support regarding the selection and development of a project.
Glenn's research explores how noise can affect White Rhinos
Glenn examined the use of low frequency sounds and infrasound within the vocal repertoire of the White Rhinoceros population in a safari park.
Find out more about Glenn's research project
Find out more about Glenn's research project
An expert team to support you
Derby is currently the largest centre in the Midlands for the IOA Diploma, and we have a strong reputation for delivering high-quality acoustics courses. You’ll benefit from the support of our friendly and approachable academic staff including the programme leader who is an active member of the Institute of Acoustics. You’ll also enjoy guest lectures by key practitioners.
Flexibility and convenience
With distance learning you can fit your MSc studies around your work and personal commitments. You can complete the course full-time over a year or part-time over two years.
We provide high-quality online learning materials, recorded presentations by academic staff, online tutorials and online classroom sessions where you can share your views and experiences.
Tim's research looks at the impact of church bell noise
Tim’s thesis gave him the opportunity to use and challenge existing scientific processes, and led him to consider the perception of the impact of church bells and why both current and historical associations with the bells gives them a status greater in people’s minds than just that of noise.
Find out more about Tim's research
Find out more about Tim's research
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You’ll take this module:
Modules
Independent Scholarly Activity -
This module is worth 60 credits towards the final award. You’ll complete a research-based investigation, either of a practical nature or a desk top review, into an acoustic topic of your choice. Throughout the module you’ll be supervised and supported by an experienced academic advisor
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You'll study by distance learning, and all materials are accessed through our Blackboard facility. You'll also be supported by online tutorials, online classrooms, and online presentations.
Assessment
You’ll be assessed entirely through coursework assignments. There are no examinations.
Who will teach you
Mark Dring
Programme Leader
Mark Dring
Mark is a lecturer on the Sound, Light and Live Event Technology Degree and also on the IOA Diploma in Acoustics and Noise Control.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You’ll be required to hold an undergraduate degree in a science or relevant discipline. If you do not have the IOA diploma in Acoustics when applying for the MSc it is essential that you contact the programme leader to discuss.
International students should have an undergraduate degree, postgraduate qualification in a science or relevant discipline, or an international equivalent. If English is not your first language, you will need to hold IELTS 6.0 or above. International students can only study this course remotely and must have completed or be in the process of completing the IOA Diploma in Acoustics and Noise Control or equivalent. Please note that the IOA diploma at the University of Derby is a part-time course delivered on Campus and is therefore unavailable to International Students.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£3,000 for 60 credit Independent Project
£1,000 per 20 credits
International
£3,115 for 60 credit Independent Project
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
Additional fee information
Applicants who already have the Institute of Acoustics Diploma or an equivalent qualification will enter at the Masters stage and only complete the project module (60 credits).
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Some essential educational software packages will be provided free
Use of resources such as computer rooms, workshops and laboratories
£150 maximum allowance for master's project
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Additional expenses for master's project, approximately £50
Printing, approximately £80
Optional costs not included in your fees
Personal computer or tablet computer approx. £500
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
Gaining the MSc will enhance your career and promotion prospects, paving the way to more senior roles in industry, consultancy, local authorities and statutory bodies.
It will help you continue your professional development, bring you up to date with the challenges facing acousticians today and give you insights into latest methods of assessment and control.
You’ll also develop valuable research, critical thinking and analytical skills which will serve you well as you advance your career.
If you’d like to pursue further academic research, the MSc is also an excellent platform for studying at PhD level.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Institute of Acoustics Diploma in Acoustics and Noise Control