Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/architecture-architectural-technology-courses/architectural-technology-and-practice-bsc-hons/

Architectural Technology and Practice BSc (Hons) - Architectural Technologies and Interior Architecture - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Architectural Technologies and Interior Architecture
Architectural Technology and Practice BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Architectural Technology and Practice
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years,  Part-time: 5 years
†
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
104
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
K130
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
With an exceptional track record for graduate employability
,
this course has a longstanding reputation for nurturing high-calibre and forward-thinking architectural technologists.
Gain a real advantage over other candidates in the job market: this degree equips you with a recognised professional qualification and latest industry thinking
Join one of the UK’s oldest standing courses accredited by the
Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT
): we gained our original accreditation back in 1997 and have built an impressive reputation ever since
Reach high professional standards: we are one of only a few
CIAT
Centres of Excellence in the UK and abroad
Learn through practical architectural design and technology projects, field trips and guest lectures delivered by leading professionals
Take the opportunity to gain vital practical experience with a year on an industry placement
Draw on our links with major names in the sector locally, nationally and internationally
Build excellent career prospects: 100% of our graduates are in a professional or managerial role within six months of graduation (DLHE 2016)
Develop the skills and confidence to take up positions in architectural practice, consultancy, government, property development and building contracting
Please note:
5 years minimum for part-time study. Direct entry into later stages of the course is available if you have relevant qualifications or suitable work experience (subject to an interview).
Day release: 2 years part-time (part-time day release mode guaranteed only for final year of the degree).
Top
20
for graduate prospects
BSc (Hons) Architectural Technology and Practice - The Complete University Guide 2025
95
%
of students agreed they had explored ideas and concepts in depth
BSc (Hons) Architectural Technology and Practice - National Student Survey 2024
As a CIAT accredited course the content and depth of understanding fostered is outstanding, but what makes the course exceptional is the tutors, who are eclectic, incredibly knowledgeable and generous with their time.
Karaan Sabherwal
Winner of CIAT outstanding graduating student award
Leading to a recognised professional qualification, this degree offers a powerful combination of design, technology, the science of architecture, sustainability and construction.
Strong professional credentials
We have designed this course around the core subject knowledge requirements of the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT).
It entails a unique mix of live projects, advanced technical design and integrated environmental approaches, together with the application of Building Information Modelling (BIM) technology and building simulation systems.
Flexibility is a cornerstone of our BSc (Hons) Architectural Technology and Practice. You can study full time with or without an industrial placement year or you can ‘top up’ your existing qualifications – such as a HND or foundation degree – to gain a full bachelor's degree (subject to all core CIAT requirements being met).  You can also choose to study on a part-time basis to balance your learning with your other commitments.
Derby graduates receive top national awards
Two University of Derby graduates have been named among the winners in a prestigious national architectural technology competition which celebrates innovative building design by students.
Find out more about the awards
Find out more about the awards
Important industry insights
Our longstanding links with companies – both locally and overseas – will inspire and enthuse you.  Our associations span major names such as Akarstudios, Virgin Atlantic, Interserve, Benoy Architects, Jacobs, Bouygues UK, Pick Everard, Maber, Lathams, WCAC Group and Millar Management. There are regular guest lectures by leading experts from industry too.
For the last several years we have been working with
Down to Earth Derby
, on nature-based regeneration and connecting communities with nature and growing food. A major project we are working on at the moment, with the Eden Project, is a community garden on part of Sturgess Fields, a site owned by the University between Kedleston Road and Markeaton Street sites. The plan is to create a New Commons that will be managed with the community. There are opportunities for you to work on this project, designing sustainable buildings and structures.
Between stages two and three of the course, we offer you the chance to go on a year-long placement in industry. We will support you to find a suitable placement.
The award-winning student who redesigned our University
When graduate Ryan Wheeler steps through the doors at Kedleston Road he feels real pride. Because he helped redesign our main entrance while on work placement with our Estates department.
Read about Ryan's success
Read about Ryan's success
Derby Property Summit
Over the past few years, students have also collaborated with
Marketing Derby
at the Derby Property Summit events to showcase their final year projects that are based on ideas and designs for an area within the city of Derby.
View Marketing Derby in Collaboration with the University of Derby for #DPS2021 video transcript
Student concepts wow real estate developer for PEAK Gateway
Students studying Architectural Degrees and Masters level programmes have worked with Milligan to create inspiring concepts that explore the future vision for the PEAK Gateway development.
Find out more about the project
Find out more about the project
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Practical architectural design and technology projects will form the basis of your study. This is supported by field trips, placements and industrial guest lectures as well as studies relating to management, procurement, contracts and professional practice.
Computer Aided Design, Building Information Modelling, sketching and model making will play an important role in presenting your ideas.
How you are assessed
A variety of assessment methods is used, including a combination of coursework and live project work, assignments, competitions, exams, exhibitions, degree show, portfolios, graphics and oral presentations.
Student Showcase 2022
We're showcasing the work of some of our talented Architectural Technologies and Interior Architecture students to celebrate their achievements over the 2021-22 academic year.
View the Student Showcase
View the Student Showcase
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Boris Ceranic
Programme Leader
Dr Boris Ceranic
Dr Boris Ceranic is a long standing Programme Leader of undergraduate and postgraduate architectural courses and an experienced academic, practitioner and researcher.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
104
A Level
BCC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Studio facilities - glue guns, hotwire cutters, laser cutters in workshops, 3D printers in the workshops
Safety shoes
Starter pack including A3 wallet, sketchbook, measuring tape, scale ruler, eraser, 3 x technical pencils
Free membership of accredited bodies - license paid by college
Year 1 Compulsory Field trip within England, 4 day residential: coach, bed and breakfast
Day trips to free entry venues or construction sites
AutoCAD student version downloadable on personal computer
Adobe suite, Endscape and Sketch-up Pro available on university computers in the MS and BM campuses
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Year 1 Field trip main meals approx. £20 per day
Materials for model making (card, vinyl, acrylic), presentation materials (marker pens, inks, etc.), production of prototype and final models, 3D printing material and laser cutting materials. Approx. costs - Year 1: £100, Year 2: £200, Year 3: £300 (Costs aproximated by students)
Additional materials (printing, stationery, portfolio sleeves, folders, etc.) approx. costs - Year 1: £50, Year 2: £50, Year 3: £300.
Optional costs not included in your fees
Course books - approx. £30 per book depending on source
Year 2 - Optional 5 day trip abroad with a student contribution of approx. £250 which covers flights and hotel. University contribution: coach travel, entry to museums and iconic buildings, metro card, guided tour and booklet
Any travel for paid placements
High fidelity graphics card
Computer and programmes if not using university computers
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Undergraduate
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Our graduates work in architectural practices or take on many different types of roles in consultancy and with central and local government, property developers, building contractors, housing associations, banks, retail enterprises and manufacturing companies.
You could also choose to take your studies to the next level with our
MSc Sustainable Architecture and Healthy Buildings
or
MSc in Building Information Modelling and Project Collaboration
. Further opportunities include advancing to a PhD too.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
† Additional information about your studies
4 years with an optional placement year.
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Part-time
Other courses you might like
Architectural Technology and Practice with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Interior Architecture and Venue Design BA (Hons)
Chat to our students
−