Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/artificial-intelligence-courses/artificial-intelligence-data-science-bsc-hons-foundation/

Artificial Intelligence and Data Science with Foundation Year BSc (Hons) - Artificial Intelligence - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Artificial Intelligence
Artificial Intelligence and Data Science with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Artificial Intelligence and Data Science with Foundation Year
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time:
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112-120
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
I22F
Start date
September
Location
Derby Campus
The best bits
Be a graduate that’s sought after by an industry offering attractive salaries and significant progression right from the start of your career
Benefit from the flexibility of having the option to transfer to another course in our Computing portfolio after your first year
Learn from our expert academic staff who are acknowledged as leading scientists in their field
Take advantage of our connections with employers on work placements and projects
Learn in a modern, flexible and supportive environment, supported by specialist facilities
You won’t have any written exams – all assessment is through coursework
Dealing with data is one of the biggest challenges that society faces – but it also offers huge opportunities. From autonomous vehicles to medical systems, data science and AI is penetrating nearly every industry. And with the demand for AI skills and data science continuing to grow, now is the perfect time to study this area and set yourself up for a successful career.
On this degree, you’ll study the mathematical foundations of data analysis combined with the practical elements of performing that analysis and extracting useful meaning from the data. You’ll also learn the mathematical foundations of AI and how to construct AI systems and models.
Foundation year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Benefit from flexibility
In your second year, you’ll go on to study more specialist modules with further options to tailor your studies to an area of your interest in your final year.
Industry connections
The University has strong connections with industry. We collaborate with local and international companies on a wide range of projects, having previously worked with Rolls-Royce, JCB, Bentley Motors, Alstom, CERN, Toyota and Bloc Digital.
You have the option to take a placement year between years two and three. This will give you substantial experience in industry as well as insight into the careers available to you once you graduate. You’ll also gain confidence and improve your success and progression in jobs.
Facilities
Our industry-standard computer labs contain cutting-edge software development tools. You’ll get to work in:
Computer Lab
-
home to a full suite of specialist hardware facilities and software access
XR (cross-reality) Lab -
a flexible space for visualisation and other projects, also used for mixed-course games development
CAVE Lab
provides data visualisation hardware containing a 270-degree 3D projection set up allowing multiple users to experience a shared virtual environment
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You’ll learn in different ways, including lectures, seminars, tutorials, practical sessions and team working. On the Individual Project module, you’ll be encouraged to use and apply research and innovation tools and approaches in a practical context.
How you are assessed
Instead of exams, a variety of assessment methods are used. Some modules are assessed through coursework only, others by a combination of:
Coursework
Portfolios
Assignments
Case studies
Oral and graphic presentations
Collaborative and interdisciplinary teamwork projects
Computer testing and examinations
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112-120
A Level
BBB-BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DDM-DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Data Science jobs are increasingly in demand across all sectors including engineering, technology, society, commerce and healthcare. You could move into roles such as:
Data Scientist
Data Analyst
Data Engineer
Data Architect
Machine Learning Engineer
Business Intelligence Engineer
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
This is a new course so the data displayed via Discover Uni is for students studying in another subject area.
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Computer Science (with pathways) BSc (Hons)
Computer Games Programming BSc (Hons)
Artificial Intelligence in Digital Marketing BSc (Hons)
Artificial Intelligence in Psychology BSc (Hons)