Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/artificial-intelligence-courses/artificial-intelligence-criminology-bsc-hons/

Artificial Intelligence in Criminology BSc (Hons) - Artificial Intelligence - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Artificial Intelligence
Artificial Intelligence in Criminology BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Artificial Intelligence in Criminology
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
120
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
I4ML
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road and Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
On this course, you will consider the ethics, opportunities and threats presented by artificial intelligence (AI). You'll review how machine learning and automated technologies will impact our future world. Scientists are looking at how AI can be used to predict patterns of reoffending, how we track crimes and criminals around the globe, and how AI can be used for safer and more reliable sentencing of criminals. You will be at the cutting edge of this new field.
You'll tackle ethical dilemmas such as who is legally responsible for artificial intelligence and what happens when there is an AI crime, such as a collision with a driverless car.  We will consider this in the real world and in the virtual environment, and consider what these developments mean about the nature of crime.
This course will position you at the cutting edge of this graduate job market. You will graduate with the skills, knowledge and expertise to maximise the opportunities that this new technology will provide.
The use of artificial intelligence in criminology is a contemporary issue. It is used to help analyse crime and criminal data and make informed decisions on strategy and policy. It can also improve processes in the Criminal Justice System.
You'll learn from our expert academic staff which includes leading scientists in their field and an award-winning teaching team of mathematicians, computer scientists, criminal psychologists, sociologists, experienced police officers and lawyers. You'll also take advantage of our connections with employers on work placements and projects including the HM Prison Service, Youth Justice Board, Rolls-Royce and Toyota. In our modern specialist facilities, you'll develop a range of skills and knowledge that will prepare you for a career after graduation.
1
million
Users on ChatGPT within the first five days of its release
Forbes 2022
64
%
of businesses expect AI to increase productivity
Forbes 2022
10
%
of vehicles will be driverless by 2030
Forbes 2022
At the forefront of new technology
Artificial Intelligence and criminology are both fascinating subject areas that will lead to a wide range of careers. The knowledge you will develop will allow you to tackle real-world challenges in the justice and penal system, as well as in the advancing field of artificial intelligence and how it can support these issues.
Bringing together the mathematical foundations of AI and the understating of AI systems and models, along with a mixture of disciplines such as sociology, law, psychology and philosophy, our BSc (Hons) Artificial Intelligence and Criminology course encourages you to think creatively, challenge established beliefs and develop your own research interests.
During the course, you’ll develop strong skills in the areas of investigation, management and communication with activities such as interviewing, negotiation, decision-making and research being at the heart of how you'll learn.
Expert teaching
The teaching team includes lecturers from a wide range of backgrounds including; probation, policing, law, youth justice, mental health, computing, mathematics and data science. We seek to maintain a balance between theory and practice throughout the course.
Your lecturers engage with organisations in the local community, nationally and around the world and many of us publish in journals, and textbooks and are active researchers. This allows us to provide dynamic, exciting and innovative content. We pride ourselves on providing a varied and student-centred learning experience; your programme of study has been designed by an enthusiastic and committed team.
Excellent facilities
Our industry-standard learning facilities contain cutting-edge software development tools and real-world learning spaces. You’ll get to work in:
Computer Lab
- home to our specialist hardware facilities and software access, including Python, Visual Studio, Unreal Engine, Unity, Apache, PHP, MySQL, Azure Cloud Services and DirectX/OpenGL as well as our data cave and visualisation suite
Replica crown court
– provides a practical learning space where you can take part in activities like moot court
Custody Suite
– practice in a replica modern-day police station setting including a booking-in desk, a cell and interview rooms.
Data Science Research Centre
The Data Science Research Centre (DSRC) is based in the University’s STEM Centre at Markeaton Street. It features high-performance computing facilities and a state-of-the-art Data Visualisation Laboratory. The centre aims to play a leading role in the region and nationally in research.
Find out more
Find out more
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Our teaching methods consist of:
Lectures
Seminars
Practical sessions
Group working
How you are assessed
A variety of assessment methods are used. Some modules are assessed through coursework only, others by a combination of:
Coursework
Portfolios
Presentations
Examinations
Case studies
Teamwork projects
Computer testing and examinations
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
120
A Level
BBB
T Level
Merit. T Level in Science required.
BTEC
DDM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
A minimum of Distinction: 15 credits, Merit: 24 credits, Pass: 6 credits.
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
N/A
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
DBS check if required for research purposes
We may offer a study trip if applicable and appropriate
Local trips to visit criminal justice organisations (eg. courts, police stations) and virtual studios
Access to online learning materials.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Careers
We are aware of the rapid pace of change in the dynamic AI and criminology field and are committed to helping you develop a valuable set of skills which are attractive to a wide range of employers nationally and internationally.
Our Criminology graduates have gone on to diverse roles in the police, Crown Prosecution Service, courts, probation and prison services, youth offending teams and other law enforcement agencies.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Other courses you might like
Artificial Intelligence and Psychology BSc (Hons)
Artificial Intelligence and Data Science BSc (Hons)
Criminology BSc (Hons)
Criminology and Sociology BA (Hons)
Forensic Science with Criminology BSc (Hons)