Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/artificial-intelligence-courses/artificial-intelligence-psychology-bsc-hons/

Artificial Intelligence in Psychology BSc (Hons) - Artificial Intelligence - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Artificial Intelligence
Artificial Intelligence in Psychology BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Artificial Intelligence in Psychology
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
128
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
I4C8
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road and Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
Artificial intelligence and Psychology is a new degree in this emerging field where you will study intelligent behaviour in machines and in human beings. You will be at the forefront of this exciting new discipline and a future thought leader in what is an ever-growing area of impact.
This course develops student understanding of how natural cognition can be understood with the help of artificial cognition and how psychological phenomena arise in artificial cognition. Students will learn how to apply this understanding of human psychology in the complex programming of AI technology.
You will consider simple and complex AI alongside a broad range of theories of human behaviour. Psychologists have the unique perspective to consider the ethics and impact of AI on human beings. Scientists are examining how much is AI shaping our world, changing our daily lives and interactions, and creating a new reality.
AI is perhaps the future modern forum for individuals, companies, and even countries. The psychologist who can understand, interrogate and navigate this technology and its impact will be integral to our future at all levels in society.
There are many positives to be gained from AI. It can analyse huge amounts of data swiftly, provide therapy services, it can help doctors predict health challenges in groups and patients earlier and create automated bespoke treatment plans.
You will graduate with the skills to tackle some of the biggest challenges in the study of the human mind and machine behaviour, whilst applying your knowledge to offer future focused solutions.  This course will position you at the cutting edge of this graduate job market. You will graduate with the skills, knowledge and expertise to maximise the opportunities that this new technology will provide.
This course will help you learn the mathematical foundations of AI and how to construct AI systems and models. Dealing with data is one of the biggest challenges that society faces – but it also offers huge opportunities from autonomous vehicles to medical systems. Combining this expertise with psychological theories means you will have an advantage in understanding the human mind, behaviour and how this influences AI.
10
%
of vehicles will be driverless by 2030
Forbes 2022
64
%
of businesses expect AI to increase productivity
Forbes 2022
1
million
Users on ChatGPT within the first five days of its release
Forbes 2022
Specialist Facilities
Our facilities are used for both teaching and research. They include computing labs with specialist software for designing experiments and research. You'll use a range of psychological recording equipment such as the latest eye-tracker equipment for analysing eye movement and our Babylab for ethical research with babies and young children.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You’ll learn in different ways, including lectures, seminars, tutorials, practical sessions and team working. On the Individual Project module, you’ll be encouraged to use and apply research and innovation tools and approaches in a practical context.
You will learn from lecturers and tutors who are carrying out research designed to offer fresh perspectives on issues that are significant at every stage of life as well as those who develop and apply the latest AI tools in domains ranging from health to manufacturing. Your lecturers bring their latest thinking to your studies. And, in some cases, you’ll have opportunities to get involved in research projects yourself.
How you are assessed
For Artificial Intelligence with Psychology, a variety of assessment methods are used. Some modules are assessed through coursework only, others by a combination of:
Coursework
Portfolios
Assignments
Case studies
Oral and graphic presentations
Collaborative and interdisciplinary teamwork projects
Computer testing and examinations
Independent scholarship (you can choose to focus on an area of personal interest to stand out in the graduate jobs market)
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
128
A Level
ABB
T Level
Merit. T Level in Science required.
BTEC
DDM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
A minimum of Distinction: 15 credits, Merit: 24 credits, Pass: 6 credits.
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to essential software (SPSS and NVivo)
Access to any materials included in taught areas such as biopsychology, research methods and related optional modules
DBS check if you are undertaking a placement facilitated by the course
Visit to the British Psychological Society's Psychology4Graduates national event
Optional costs not included in your fees
You may wish to purchase optional textbooks or e-books to support your studies - costs for these are dependent on your choice
Printing costs of course materials if hard copy desired - approximate cost is 5p per sheet
Student membership of the British Psychological Society - approximate cost is £30
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Artificial Intelligence careers include:
Machine Learning Engineer
Data Scientist
Business Intelligence Engineer
Robotics Engineer
AI Research
S
tudying psychology opens doors to many different sectors and professions - anywhere an understanding of people is valued - so your career options will be broad. Our Psychology graduates have gone on to successful roles in sectors such as:
Psychological research
Scientific or clinical research
Charity leadership
Mental health support and management
Health services and therapeutic care
Probation service and police
Human resources
Health psychology
Educational psychology
Occupational psychology
Forensic psychology
Clinical psychology
Teaching
Through our Professional Development Package, you'll gain valuable transferable skills, including:
Written and verbal communication
Research and analytical
Personal motivation, organisation and self-reflection
Numeracy
IT literacy
Critical awareness
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.