Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/arts-therapies-theory-and-research-in-relation-to-practice-1/

Arts Therapies Theory and Research in Relation to Practice 1 - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Arts Therapies Theory and Research in Relation to Practice 1
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Arts Therapies Theory and Research in Relation to Practice 1
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Fees and funding
Module details
Module code
7TA504
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
September
Location
Britannia Mill, Derby Campus
Module description
You’ll study theories on human development including the areas of physiology, play, stages of non-verbal communication and psychology. You’ll also consider mental illness, studied in the context of assessment and treatment within contemporary health and social care settings.
You will identify and consider key models and ideas from psychology, psychotherapy and psychiatry that inform arts therapies theory and practice.
Throughout the course consideration will be made of medical and non-medical models and their implications within clinical diagnosis and practice.
We will provide you with the opportunity to develop your writing and research skills, including the selection of appropriate data, critical thinking and organisation and communication of ideas through the written and spoken word.
The course comprises some joint teaching in the form of break out groups. Opportunities for formative activity will also be made available through critically reflecting upon a case material to develop clinical reasoning skills.
Who this course is for
This course is aimed at all health and social care professionals. You’ll need an undergraduate degree in a related subject, substantial experience working in a care organisation, evidence of using art for self-expression.
Course team
All members of the academic team are research active. You’ll meet the following team members:
Drew Bird
Shelagh Cornish
Clive Holmwood
Kirsty McTaggart
Nick Stein
Katy Tozer
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Demonstrate the ability to select appropriate data, apply critical thinking and organise and communicate ideas through the written word.
Identify and critically reflect upon one question/issue/aspect raised by the article, supported by Arts Therapies and related theory, making links to the chosen article.
Fees and funding
If you are funding your own study, the module price will be confirmed shortly.
Empower your workforce with block bookings
Take advantage of a short courses block booking to upskill your employees. Our short courses run on-campus and online and include new legislation and other up-to-the-minute issues. Get in touch today and we will tailor a package to meet the needs of your business.
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.