Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/art-design-courses/arts-ma/

MA Arts (pathways in Fine Art or Photography) - Art and Design - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Art and Design
MA Arts (pathways in Fine Art or Photography)
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Arts (pathways in Fine Art or Photography)
MA
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
The highlights
We're looking for fine artists and photographers who are strongly motivated and independently minded. We will help you to shape your individual creative practice by encouraging reflection and re-evaluation, research and experimentation
Our academic team have a wide range of backgrounds with expertise in fine art, photography, film, public art, performance, curatorship, critical theory, art history, philosophy and criticism, residencies and commissions. We're sure you'll thrive in this diverse creative community
You will have access to outstanding facilities, including
darkrooms, equipment and software
that are the envy of most professional photographers, and recently refurbished
Fine Art Studios
in our historic Britannia Mill site.
Work creatively across disciplines
This MA Arts is an exciting, challenging and rigorous programme of study, which offers you a choice of two pathways — Photography or Fine Art — so you can focus on one particular discipline and graduate with a named award in that.
At the same time, as the boundaries between visual arts disciplines continue to blur, this Masters will encourage you to take part in a diverse range of activities and collaborate with other art and design students — especially those on the alternative pathway to you — so you develop as a multifaceted, original artist and practitioner.
This programme will bring together a community of photographers and artists in a multidisciplinary/interdisciplinary environment, to explore the interface between media (both traditional and digital) in a stimulating and creatively enabling way. This will provide a unique and exciting opportunity for those who wish to specialise in the interpretation of time and space working creatively, practically and intellectually across disciplines. Discussions and debates around the differences and commonalities of the subject areas will both critically inform and support individual creative practice, including the relevance of the written word through narrative form and theoretical studies.
You will undertake taught studio-based research, while gaining a strong theoretical awareness of contemporary practice. There will be lots of lively debates involving students and staff from a range of disciplines, giving you the opportunity to hear a rich range of voices and contribute your own.
You will also become part of our thriving research culture and be able to attend the staff research seminar series, where colleagues discuss their latest projects.
At the end of the programme, you will take part in the University's Degree Show: a large-scale exhibition of work from final year undergraduate and postgraduate arts students. You can see the highlights from the
2021 MA Degree Show here
as well as a video from the 2018 show below.
View Masters Show 2018 video transcript
MA Arts (Photography) pathway
The University of Derby has a long history of excellence in photography, with high student satisfaction ratings and top 20 league table positions. On this MA Arts (Photography), we teach photography as a fine art practice, offering a contemporary and exciting programme. By developing your own projects, you will have the freedom to focus on what interests and excites you.
You will have access to well-resourced facilities that will allow you to experiment with different image-making methods, working across analogue, digital, still or moving image and multimedia installation.
Our University hosts
FORMAT International Photography Festival
in collaboration with
Derby QUAD
, which attracts artists from all over the world. This provides you with a unique opportunity to showcase your work and build contacts within the industry.
You will be encouraged to maintain a professional profile during the course. Previous arts students have exhibited at venues such as
The Crypt Derby Cathedral
,
Pickford's House Museum
,
The Orangery Derby
,
QUAD
,
Wirksworth Visual Arts Festival
,
Derby Museum and Art Gallery
, Una Notte al Museo in Milan, Italy, Campbell Works Gallery London, and Fermynwoods Contemporary Arts.
We will inspire you to shape your individual creative practice with relevant theoretical knowledge and experimental approaches, informing a personal voice and engagement within the creative industries.
Sofia Rodrigues
MA Arts (Fine Art) pathway
This pathway is open to fine art undergraduates as well as people who have studied other art and design disciplines, and who now want to develop their skillset in a fine art context.
On this pathway, we'll encourage you to critically reflect on your personal practice and become more aware of the relationship between your work and your audience. You will consider aspects of curatorial practice and how art works are received by general and specialist audiences.
You will have access to well-staffed and well-resourced fine art studios and a range of 2D/3D making workshops (printmaking, ceramics, sculpture, wood / metal) plus the University's other arts facilities, such as an equipment loan store, digital print workshops and video editing software.
Student work from left to right: Deb Rogers, Henrietta Ellis, Ana Torrejon (top right) and Zoe Collishaw (bottom right)
Why established artist Adam chose our masters
Adam Neal is making challenging and exciting work thanks to the freedom and support he receives as a postgraduate student.
Read about Adam's experience
Read about Adam's experience
Recent exhibitions
Explore postgraduate student work from exhibitions such as Here & Now and The MA Degree Show.
Be inspired by student work
Be inspired by student work
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You will study modules such as:
Postgraduate Certificate
These modules fully integrate both theory and practice and are written and placed to encourage ideas and learning to be balanced and exchanged between the two.
Practice, Theory, Curation (Fine Art or Photography) (20 credits)
This module introduces you to curatorial debates and ideas within the arena of Fine Art and Photography practice, reflecting on and responding to visual and written texts that engage critically with the subject.
Reflective Processes and Visual Enquiry (Fine Art or Photography) (40 credits)
This module will explore examples of reflective and self-critical practice from a personal historical perspective. Students will present an account of work to date, relating it to current theoretical issues, and use this as a “bridge” to re-evaluate and reassess in order to begin the development of a new corpus of visual work.
Postgraduate Diploma
Critical Study (Fine Art or Photography) (20 credits)
This module is an opportunity for you to undertake a critical study of your own, current artistic or photographic practice within the contemporary international context of art and/or photography. It will enable you to develop your knowledge and understanding of the relationship between practice and theory to a more advanced level, through scholarly research and production of an essay.
Negotiated Study (Fine Art or Photography) (40 credits)
Within this module you will articulate the context in which your work might be sighted. Clarifying where and how your work might be staged and viewed, with reference to audience engagement and interaction, it is intended to bring the critical aspect of forming judgements about your work. The module will support your development of key research skills and working practices preparatory to the ‘Independent Scholarship and Critical Reflection’ module.
MA
Choose one module on the third and final stage of the programme:
Independent Scholarship and Critical Reflection in Photography or
Independent Scholarship and Critical Reflection in Fine Art or
Artistic Research and Critical Practice
Independent Scholarship and Critical Reflection (Fine Art or Photography) (60 credits)
Alongside the major practice element of this module (the Degree show exhibition) you will be asked to ‘critically reflect’ and ‘analyse’ your practice; this is designed to develop and enhance your ability to critically discuss and evaluate work in order to contextualise, develop and propose plans for your future professional practice. In this module, practical and research skills acquired in preceding modules will be employed and developed to produce a coherent and sustained body of exhibition quality work to a professional standard.
Artistic Research: Theory and Practice (Fine Art or Photography) (60 credits)
You will be able to conduct a major, extended, in-depth critical review of the theoretical and historical dimensions of your artistic or photographic research alongside the development of your practice. Forming the culmination of your programme of study, it will be appropriate to those who have discovered that their creative interests and strengths lie primarily in the theoretical and historical aspects of artistic research and who may be considering applying to undertake practice-based doctoral research.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
This MA Arts is a professionally taught programme delivered through seminars, tutorials, workshop, peer reviews and guest lectures. We also take part in UK and international study trips to galleries, arts centres and other cultural institutions and have good links with regional galleries such as
QUAD
and
Derby Museum and Art Gallery.
Student work from left to right: Thomas Wynne, Holly McGhee, Finn Dahlhaus (top centre) and Paige Holmes
Visiting practitioners and speakers
There is a rich programme of specialist visiting practitioners and speakers. In the past, we've hosted:
Visiting practitioners
Jonny Briggs
Dave Smith
Lisa Watt
Dario Srbic
Nicola Williams
Henrietta Simson
Alberto Condotta
Duncan Wooldridge
Jennifer Wright
Ian Whitfield
Mike Shaw
Dr Paul Kilsby
Mark Wright
Will Jennings
Eleanor MacNair
Marlene Smith
Louise K Wilson
Jaqueline Butler
Alexander Pollard
Dan Hays
Ines Coehlo
Bettina Von Zwehl
Sarah Jones
Vanely Burke
Peter Kennard
Dr Bharti Parmar
Cristina Nuñez.
Visiting speakers
Philosopher Dr Malcolm Barnard
Art council and members of the creative industry - Elizabeth Hawley, Peta Murphy, Wendy Mason and Sarah Reed
Curators Peter Bonnell and David Gilbert.
How are you assessed?
We'll assess you at the end of each module and provide written and verbal feedback on your progress. We use a range of assessment approaches, including the presentation of practical work, essays, reports including reflective journals, proposals and presentations. In between assessments, we will also give you regular feedback on your work.
Who you'll meet
You'll meet the following members of the teaching team, including Programme Leader, Vered Lahav:
Vered Lahav
, is a photographer and installation artist who has exhibited nationally and internationally. Vered is the recipient of awards from the Shapira Foundation, the Avi Fellowship and the ACAVA award. In addition, she has received Arts Council Grants for Individuals in 2004, 2008 and 2013.
Dr Teresa Forde
, is a Senior Lecturer within the School of Arts. She oversees the MA Arts theory modules. Teresa’s research interests include curation and exhibition, and she has been researching the work of Marion Adnams, a twentieth-century Derby-based artist who is defined as a surrealist. Teresa has co-curated an exhibition on Adnams and contributed a video piece to the exhibition.  She also organises a symposium on 20th-century women artists in the Midlands, with a focus on Marion Adnams.
Colin Wilson
, is a Senior Lecturer within the School of Arts.  He is working across all formats of analogue photography, specialising in large format 5x4 and 10x8 cameras and mural printing.  The practice of making and exhibiting art for Colin is a mindful, embodied communion with the world. Early works explored themes of Perception, Consciousness, and Experience, where real places become imaginary places and imaginary places become real places.
Who will teach you
Vered Lahav
Programme Leader
Vered Lahav
Vered is the Programme Leader for our MA Arts (Photography and Fine Art) courses.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
We aim to attract well-motivated students who wish to further their study in a stimulating and professionally orientated learning environment.
All applicants will be expected to submit a portfolio of artwork and Creative Positioning Statement to the Programme Leader in advance of the interview. The portfolio should be a thematic body of work that explores a range of approaches underpinned by a conceptual understanding of context - in short, a coherent range of work exploring a theme/issue/set of ideas etc. A Creative Positioning Statement in the form of a description of your practice and the themes, issues or concerns you would like to explore or develop through this MA programme will be required. The length of the document will be approximately 500 words. Send us your portfolio via email through to
pgtadmissionsb@derby.ac.uk
We understand that some of your work will not be in a digital format, for any physical pieces of work please take a photograph of it and submit the photograph.
UK and EU Entry Requirements
You will normally be expected to have an appropriate Fine Art, or other first degree appropriate to apply for the MA (Minimum 2:2 or above), or a professional qualification of equal standing, or significant practical or professional experience gained following your initial qualification that would support your application. Depending on your qualifications, experience and your submitted work, you may be invited to attend an interview before being offered a place. You should bring your portfolio to the interview normally arranged at the University or online. You will also be asked to provide a plan of how you intend to use the time on the MA to further your practice.
If English is not your first language, you'll also need an IELTS score of 6.0 (with 5.5 in each skills area), or equivalent. The test must be taken within the last two years leading up to the course start date and must still be valid when Visa is issued.
Please
contact the programme team
with any queries.
Interview information
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Additional access to wider University Arts' facilities including equipment loan store and other facilities, such as digital print workshops or video editing
Specialist equipment and access to a range of 2D/3D making workshops (printmaking, ceramics, sculpture, wood / metal)
Participation in the University Degree Show - including the physical building of the exhibition space
Here at Derby, we provide excellent learning resources, libraries and specialist laboratories and studios
The programme benefits from a visiting speaker each semester
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
We recommend students using photography or film/video to have their own camera, however our equipment loan store holds most needed equipment to complete student coursework
The programme uses Adobe Creative Suite which is installed on all Macs in MS102 and MS012 at Markeaton Street and students are provided with an individual Adobe Creative Cloud subscription for home use
To support their professional and skills development, students are provided with a subscription to LinkedIn Learning which offers over 13,000 courses and tutorials, including professional accreditations, in a wide range of creative, business & technology disciplines
Approx. £100 per year for printing research material for journal work
Additional materials (printing, stationery, portfolio sleeves, folders, USBs/hard drives etc. £100 - £300)
There will be occasions when you will be expected to attend exhibitions, screenings, performances and festivals. You will need to budget for these over each academic year
National trips - coach (Approx. £8 - £12 , London £30+) International trip (Approx. £500)
Individual project work - towards the end of each of the three stages - this can range from £100 - £1000 depending on the activity
Optional costs not included in your fees
Additional course related publications (approx. costs £100)
Specialist software/hardware (costs up to £1500)
Final year project costs (costs determined by student £200 - £600)
Travel for work placement opportunities (costs will vary dependant on location
We provide full details of all course fees, but extra costs may include field trips (approx. cost £200 - £400)
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
We have strong links with employers and cultural institutions, which we encourage you to maximise throughout this programme. There are also many opportunities to showcase your work and build a following.
As a graduate from this programme, you will have developed a mature body of work in photography or fine art, as well as gaining the language and skills you need to locate and explain your practice in the professional art world. You will be well-placed to forge a career as an independent artist/photographer, or look for employment in sectors such as the creative industries, education, museums, libraries and archives, or publishing and broadcasting.
Derby University students have made a major contribution to our city’s vibrant arts culture. Many have been inspired by the area's rural and industrial heritage, and have established studios, start-up businesses or exhibited work locally. Students Sarah Blandford and Sofia Rodrigues were awarded the Banks Mill Student Residency 2021-22.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.