Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/arts-therapies-theory-and-research-in-relation-to-practice-2/

Arts Therapies Theory and Research in Relation to Practice 2 - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Arts Therapies Theory and Research in Relation to Practice 2
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Arts Therapies Theory and Research in Relation to Practice 2
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Benefits
Fees and funding
Module details
Module code
7TA505
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
September
Duration
12 weeks
Location
Britannia Mill, Derby Campus
Module description
Throughout this module emphasis will be placed on arts therapy theory, its history and its development in relation to relevant disciplines.  You’ll also consider the importance of recognising marginalised groups and working with diversity through processes of enabling and empowerment.
There will be a focus on the role of research within institutional and professional development and a consideration of evidence-based practice. You’ll develop skills and a greater understanding of the different approaches towards research in the arts therapies, identifying topics of research and selecting and applying appropriate methodology and data analysis.
The module will enable you to integrate evidence-based practice with appropriate research methodologies. You’ll perform a literature search and prepare an outline research proposal. Whilst considering the structure and concerns of the area of interest you’ll consider methods of data collection and evaluation.
Consideration of how to undertake a small scale independent research project that integrates theory and methods from psychology is a core element of the course.
Who this course is for
This is course is aimed at all health and social care professionals. You’ll need an undergraduate degree in a related subject, substantial experience working in a care organisation, evidence of using art for self-expression.
Course team
All members of the academic team are research active. You’ll meet the following team members:
Drew Bird
Shelagh Cornish
Clive Holmwood
Kirsty McTaggart
Nick Stein
Katy Tozer
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Formulate a research question and determine the nature of evidence most suited to the answering of that question.
Collaboratively present a research proposal designed to provide and process the necessary evidence.
Identify and critique appropriate theoretical approaches that underpin the basis of Contemporary Arts Therapies Practice specific to your chosen art form.
Critically reflect upon, and take into account, the legislative framework and ethical requirements of good arts therapies practice
Benefits
Students undertaking this module usually do so as an integral part of their art therapy professional training at Master levels at the university of Derby MA Art Therapy and MA Dramatherapy programmes.
Fees and funding
If you are funding your own study, the module price will be confirmed shortly.
Empower your workforce with block bookings
Take advantage of a short courses block booking to upskill your employees. Our short courses run on-campus and online and include new legislation and other up-to-the-minute issues. Get in touch today and we will tailor a package to meet the needs of your business.
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.