Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/assessment-prevention-and-management-of-falls/

Assessment, Prevention and Management of Falls - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Assessment, Prevention and Management of Falls
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Assessment, Prevention and Management of Falls
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
Module details
Module code
7RD503
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
September, January
Location
Distance learning
Module description
Health care professionals working with older people are required to effectively identify the risk of, prevent and manage falls. As a health care practitioner must be able to critically evaluate current practices and fully appreciate both the assessment and therapeutic interventions available if competency and effective care is to be assured.
This module aims to provide you with an appreciation of the patho-physiological processes involved and enable you to engage in and critically reflect on, assessment, treatment and monitoring of this health problem and hypothesise on its future impact on society.
You will study the definition of a fall, physiology of postural stability, risk factors for falls and associated risk factor tools, intervention strategies for preventing and managing falls and an overview of national guidance strategies.
Who this course is for
This course is aimed at all health and social care professionals. You must hold a professional health care qualification and be eligible to register with the relevant professional board. It’s a broad introductory module into the subject of falls management therefore may be studied by you if you are a specialist health and social care professional (older people, metabolic bone, rheumatology, etc) or if the management of falls forms a part of your general day to day role.
Course leader
Marie Cook
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Critically evaluate the epidemiology of falls in older people considering socio-economic, political and personal consequences of falls and fall related injuries.
Critically review the issues pertinent to effective assessment, prevention and management of falls in older people.
Undertake analysis and critical evaluation of current service provision for those at risk of falls or who have fallen.
Evaluate and justify the requirements of a falls service.
Entry requirements
You must hold a professional health care qualification and be eligible to register with the relevant professional board.
If you don’t hold a BA/BSc qualification you should be a health care professional and have a minimum of two years clinical experience in osteoporosis, DXA, falls.
Fees and funding
If you are funding your own study, the module price will be confirmed shortly.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.