Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/teacher-training-courses/qualified-teacher-status-assessment-only-route/

Assessment Only Route to Qualified Teacher Status - Teacher Training - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Teacher Training
Assessment Only Route to Qualified Teacher Status
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Professional Course
Assessment Only Route to Qualified Teacher Status (QTS)
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 12 weeks
Start dates
January, See below
†
Do you have considerable experience working in education but still need to achieve Qualified Teacher Status (QTS)? We offer a flexible, convenient pathway to help you realise your ambitions and progress your teaching career.
Our Assessment Only Route to QTS could be ideal if you are:
Working as an unqualified teacher – paid or unpaid in a primary or secondary setting
A cover supervisor, Higher Level Teaching Assistant (HLTA) or supply teacher
An experienced Further Education lecturer now working in a school and keen to gain QTS
An overseas trained teacher who does not automatically qualify for QTS or who did not gain QTS within the four-year limit
The Assessment Only Route is open to colleagues in Independent Schools, Academies, Special Schools, PRUs
Formalise your teaching skills and open up your career prospects. If you are an experienced teacher with a degree, this route is your chance to demonstrate that you already meet all the standards for QTS – without the need for further training.
A fast-track route to qualification
The Assessment Only Route enables you to become formally qualified within a short space of time while you continue to teach. It takes up to 12 weeks of assessment to secure QTS and you can start on any of the start dates shown below.
You are required to demonstrate that you are a reflective practitioner who has met the Teachers’ Standards and can apply your skills, knowledge and understanding effectively in a wide range of school settings. In addition, you need to show that you can relate theory to practice and to evaluate critically the fundamental aims and values of education. You will be required to demonstrate competency towards the Teachers’ Standards prior to applying for the course. Candidates and schools need to provide evidence towards the Teachers’ Standards both at application stage and whilst being assessed on the route.
In-school assessments
As part of your journey to QTS, we will work in partnership with your school to assess your ability to demonstrate the Teachers’ Standards. You will be assessed while you are teaching by staff from both your school and the University.
International candidates will have 2 observations of their teaching from university assessors using a live online platform, along with weekly mentor feedback during the duration of the route, to ensure that the assessment is securely moderated, and the process is rigorous and robust.
During the assessment period, your supporting school will need to ensure that you have sufficient opportunity to develop and demonstrate the Teachers' Standards. These are recorded on an electronic portfolio which forms part of your final professional discussion with your assessor.
Support and inspiration
We have a rich heritage in training and assessing successful, confident and forward-thinking teachers. Your University assessor will come from our highly competent, experienced team and will work alongside your school-appointed mentor to offer you personalised support at every stage of the Assessment Only Route.
Ofsted
rating of 'Outstanding' for Primary, Secondary and Post-14 Further Education and Skills
Ofsted 2023/24
What you will study
The maximum period for the Assessment Only Route is 12 weeks.
The Assessment Only Route is not suitable for candidates who require training in order to develop and demonstrate Teachers’ Standards. Candidates who require training are advised to consider the
Level 6 Teacher Apprenticeship with QTS
,
PGCE Primary
,
Primary (Provider-Led, School-based) with Qualified Teacher Status PGCE
or
Secondary (Provider-Led, School-based) with Qualified Teacher Status PGCE
routes.
Supporting schools need to provide candidates with sufficient opportunity to further prove and evidence how they are meeting the Teachers’ Standards during the 12 weeks of assessment.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Although there is no formal training linked to the Assessment Only Route, it is expected that you will continue to develop professionally as a teacher and further develop your subject knowledge and teaching skills during the assessment period. You will have a school-appointed, professional mentor in school who will meet with you on a regular basis and also co-ordinate regular lesson observations with formative and constructive feedback, which is, in turn, moderated by your assessor.
How you are assessed
During the assessment period you will need to:
Be observed successfully teaching by your sponsoring school, as well as by University staff.
Your teaching must regularly show competency against the standards
Produce a portfolio of supporting examples measured against the Teachers’ Standards
Provide a variety of high-quality evidence to demonstrate that you have consistently and competently met the Teachers’ Standards across two or more consecutive age ranges, and also evidence of having taught in two schools
Undertake a subject knowledge assessment
Undertake a final viva voce (oral examination)
Entry requirements
You will need to:
Hold a degree from a United Kingdom institution or an equivalent qualification. We will ask to view the original certificates to validate your degree status.
Hold GCSE grade 4 or above in Mathematics and English or equivalent and evidence with official certification. Information on replacement certificates can be found on the
UK Gov website
.
If you intend to train to teach pupils aged 3 to 11, you additionally need to have achieved a standard equivalent to a grade 4 in the GCSE examination in a science subject and can evidence this with official certification.
The European Network of Information Centres in the European Region (ENIC) provides advice on the equivalence of overseas qualifications.
Please note that Key Skills qualifications and OCR Level 2 Adult Literacy and Numeracy are
not acceptable
alternatives. Equivalency tests are only accepted from
A Star Equivalency
.
To check your qualifications meet the appropriate qualification standard from a UK institution, refer to
UK ENIC
. You must provide a statement of comparability alongside the original certificates.
Teaching experience
Typical applications to this route include people who have taught for more than two years in the UK or overseas. The Assessment Only Route to QTS is also possible if you wish to be assessed while teaching overseas.
You must be at a school that runs the English National Curriculum, or a school that runs a recognised international curriculum (such as IB. IPC, Cambridge, etc).
Your teaching experience
must
:
Consist of time spent teaching (as opposed to other responsibilities in a school)
Have taken place in two separate schools (not 2 classes within the same school or two school sites within the same organisation)
Demonstrate you’ve taught young people from a range of backgrounds
Show familiarity with different approaches to teaching, learning, and school management
Be divided between 2 school settings, as long as you have 2 years teaching experience in total
Your teaching experience
can
have been:
Gained in any type of school - for example, international schools, schools teaching the International Baccalaureate, and state-maintained schools outside of the UK
Spent teaching a non-English curriculum (though you may need to show you have knowledge of the subjects taught in the English curriculum)
British International School Organisations
It is not a requirement to gain teaching experience at a British international school. However, British international schools provide suitable experience for teachers wishing to apply for assessment-only QTS.
Reputable British international school organisations include:
Association of British School Overseas (AoBSO)
Council of British International Schools (COBIS)
Federation of British International Schools in Asia (FOBISIA)
British Schools in the Middle East (BSME)
Association of International Schools in Africa (AISA)
Suitability
Safeguarding for safer recruitment
We are committed to safer recruitment, meaning that we consider a candidate's suitability to work with children and people in several ways during the application process. We ensure that all Assessors are trained in the principles of "Safer Recruitment" to make sure all applicants to our programmes are suitable to work with children and young people.
The Safeguarding checks during the application process include:
1. Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) checks
All applicants will be subject to appropriate preselection checks. This includes obtaining and considering Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) criminal records checks and children's barred list information for UK nationals.
2. Prohibition checks
Applicants must not be subject to a prohibition order issued by the Secretary of State.
3. Overseas police checks
As DBS checks only cover UK police records for convictions and cautions, if you have spent any time living or working abroad, you must arrange for evidence of your good conduct from the country/countries where you were living or working
If you have worked outside of the UK in the last ten years you will need to provide a
Certificate of Good Conduct
for any country you have been resident in for more than six months
If you are a UK national currently working abroad, but have worked in the UK within the last ten years, you will need to provide an
ICPC
4. Disqualification from childcare declaration - if working with children age 8 or under
5. Health and physical capacity to train to teach
Successful applicants may be asked to declare fitness to teach before starting on the programme.
Fees and funding
UK fees are based on the location from the University of Derby, DE22 1GB:
Up to 50 miles - £2500
51-74 miles - £2500 + £60 extra per visit
75-100 miles - £2500 + £120 extra per visit
100+ Please contact
askadmissions@derby.ac.uk
to discuss
Candidates based outside of the UK:
The cost of the route is £3325 per candidate.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Application deadlines and course start dates
Applications for the January intake have now closed. Applications are now open for entry in April 2025.
Places on the Assessment Only Route to QTS are subject to meeting the entry requirements, successfully passing an interview, and the availability of a place on a given intake date.
The next application deadlines are:
Course start date
Application deadline
Deadline to provide documents
6 January 2025
4 November 2024
18 November 2024
21 April 2025
7 February 2025
25 February 2025
Interviews for the January intake will take place between 25th November and 6th December.
We would encourage you to apply as soon as possible for this programme. Applicants whose applications are received close to the deadline who cannot provide all documents by the date stated above may be moved to the next intake.
Application process
Entry to this course is very competitive and the selection process is detailed below.
Our applications follow a two-step process:
Step 1
- Completion of an online application with supporting documentation including:
A detailed CV clearly showing qualifications gained, employment history (to include employer, brief outline of role / experience, dates of employment and breaks in employment) together with personal details
A detailed personal statement showing your teaching experience across two settings and over a minimum of two years that has led you up to applying for the assessment-only route
Evidence of Maths and English GCSE (must be certificates) or international equivalent qualification. If these were achieved outside of the UK, you must also provide the ENIC Statement of Comparability confirming the equivalency.
If you are undertaking the Primary route, you will also need to provide evidence of Science GCSE (must be certificates) or international equivalent qualification. If this was achieved outside of the UK you must also provide the ENIC Statement of Comparability confirming the equivalency.
Degree Certificate. If this was achieved outside of the UK you must also provide the ENIC Statement of Comparability confirming the equivalency alongside the original certificate.
Step 2
- If a candidate meets the route requirements, they will then be provided with step 2 requirements and documentation to include:
A relevant reference for the route you have applied for from your current and previous school. This will need to confirm the dates worked and the Key Stages covered. Both references must be countersigned by the Headteacher/Principal
Assessment Against the Teachers’ Standards (AATS). This must be signed and agreed by your Headteacher and mentor
Submission of supporting examples against the Teachers’ Standards
Completion of a subject knowledge audit, relevant for your age phase or subject specialism
Completion of BKSB fundamental skills tests in English and maths at level 2 – 2.9
A mentor experience statement from your allocated mentor which must be countersigned by the Headteacher
You will then attend a formal interview.
Application Support
Due to the route requiring a number of additional documents, we offer the following support for all applicants, including:
Advisory webinars, providing further details of the supporting application documents which can be booked by emailing
askadmissions@derby.ac.uk
Phone call and email enquiries and support
Opportunities to discuss personal circumstances with the Programme Leader
Careers
With Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), you will be able to advance in one of the most satisfying and important careers of all. The qualification opens doors to greater responsibilities, more senior roles and progression up the pay scale.
You could also consider taking your skills and knowledge to the next level. Our
MA Education
is an excellent option, especially if you have your sights set on more senior roles such as middle and senior leadership roles.
“
The Assessment Only Route was the perfect route for me to gain my qualification. From the very start, I felt well supported by the University. I found the course to be really flexible in terms of timings of observation and interviews. This was invaluable to me because of my role in school. My assessor offered me excellent advice and resources to support the development of my teaching practice and my school-based mentor was involved at every stage of the process.
”
Karen Hayes
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Assessment Only enquiries
study@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591167
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
† Additional information about your studies
Applications for January 2025 are open now.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Other courses you might like
PGCE Primary with Qualified Teacher Status
Primary (Provider-Led, School-based - with Qualified Teacher Status
PGCE Secondary (Provider-Led, School-based) with Qualified Teacher Status
PGCE Post-14 Further Education and Skills
Level 6 Postgraduate Teacher with QTS Apprenticeship
Learn more about
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion at the University of Derby