Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/assistant-practitioner-to-radiographer/

Assistant Practitioner to Radiographer - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Assistant Practitioner to Radiographer
Apply now
Apply now
Short course
Assistant Practitioner to Radiographer
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Course code
UB8AK
Course level
Level 5
Course credits
60 credits
Next course date
January (subject to sufficient numbers)
Duration
6 months (including 17 weeks clinical placement)
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Course description
You’ll receive high quality teaching from friendly, supportive and enthusiastic staff, many of who are clinically and research active
There are opportunities to study with your peers on the undergraduate diagnostic radiography course, and also with students from other pre-registration and graduate entry health and social care programmes
The course focuses on key competences and the underpinning of core knowledge
Upon completion, students may wish to continue on to the final year of the BSc Diagnostic Radiography programme which would be self-funded
This short full-time course offers Assistant Practitioners the opportunity to progress from Band 4 to Band 5 in their career. It’s a course which upon completion will allow you to gain entry to the final stage of a
BSc (Hons) Diagnostic Radiography
course. By successfully completing the BSc (Hons) Diagnostic Radiography course you will be eligible to apply for registration as a diagnostic radiographer.
Currently the programme is restricted to level 5 qualified Assistant Practitioners in plain film radiography. However if you are an assistant practitioner qualified at a different level to this and would like to discuss your particular career aspirations,  we would be happy to offer possible further training routes in conjunction with your employers.
We consider this, just one part of our plan to enhance the skill set within the East Midlands, and to recognise the valuable work that Assistant Practitioners do on a daily basis within our hospitals and clinics.
Who this course is for
Assistant Practitioners in general radiography.
Course team
Our course team includes:
Claire Richards
– Physics and technology of imaging / Professional development / paediatric imaging
Julie De Witt
– nuclear medicine / coaching and mentoring / research methods / graduate skills
Sue Errett
/
Naomi Shiner
– Advanced radiographic practice / Image evaluation
Structure, certificates and assessment
You will undertake an intensive 4-week academic programme, designed to add to your existing knowledge, from which you will begin a series of three short clinical placement blocks. This will expose you to clinical environments you would not normally encounter in your role as an Assistant Practitioner
Extensive tutorial support is available to support your learning, as well as specific sessions designed to enhance your research, writing, and analytical skills over the course of the programme.
How you’ll be assessed
You will complete a number of clinical based competences, reflective practice exercises, and a professional discussion. You will also complete a short case report and an electronic poster / short critical narrative.
Entry requirements
A foundation degree in radiographic practice
IELTS at 6.5, you will need to be up to IELTS level 7.0 at the point of registration with the HCPC
GCSE in Maths and English at grade C or above
You must be in current employment as an Assistant Practitioner in radiography (general)
You will be expected to produce a portfolio of evidence for radiographic skills
You will need to complete a occupational health screening form
You must be a UK resident, this course is not open to international applicants
A Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) is required at the point of accepting a place at the University. The Disclosure and Barring Service was established when the Criminal Records Bureau (CRB) and Independent Safeguarding Authority (ISA) merged in 2012 and will now provide the criminal records checking service for this programme
Your employer must complete a partnership with the University and any placements which take place outside of Derby, Nottingham or Leicester will need approval from the College of Radiographers' Approval and Accreditation Board
Fees and funding
Self-funded CPD
If you are funding your own study, the module price will be confirmed shortly. Unfortunately no student finance package is available for this course as it does not qualify for student loan support. If you wish to progress to the final year of the BSc (Hons) Diagnostic Radiography to gain your registration to practice, you would be eligible to apply for a student loan for fees and living expenses.
For more information on payment options, please contact our Student Records and Fees team by phone on
+44 (0)1332 591063
or email at
studentrecordsandfees@derby.ac.uk
.
Additional costs and optional extras
How to apply
Level 5
LBR applications
If you are applying for an LBR funded place, please Apply directly to the University.
Find out more about LBR and whether you are eligible for an LBR course
Apply directly to the University
Self-funded applications
If you are financing your study yourself, please contact Admissions on
01332 591167
or email
askadmissions@derby.ac.uk
to secure your place
Who will teach you
Julie de Witt
Programme leader
Julie is an experienced senior lecturer and a HCPC registered Diagnostic Radiographer. She is also an experienced external examiner (UK and international), and a member of the College of Radiographers Approvals and Accreditation Board (AAB).
View full staff profile
View full staff profile
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Course: Julie de Witt (Programme Leader)
J.T.de-Witt@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1332 593073
College of Health and Social Care
hpsc@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
The information below is correct for entry in the academic year September 2020 - August 2021 only. Entry for future academic years may be subject to change.
Included in your fees
Uniforms
Markers, name badges and ID holders
Radiographic Technique DVD
Printing and binding of clinical portfolios
DBS check
Health screening and vaccinations
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Travel to 3 week elective placement in year 3 if out of usual placement rotation
Suitable footwear for skills sessions and placement, approx. £40
Optional costs not included in your fees
Theatre shoes approx. 20
Text books to supplement anything available through the library, various prices depending on content
Printing costs of course materials if hard copy is desired, approx. cost 5p per sheet
Society & College of Radiographers student membership if desired, approx. £48
Attendance at conferences such as UKRC or ECR
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Other courses you might like
Diagnostic Radiography BSc (Hons)