Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/assistant-practitioner-higher-apprenticeship/

Assistant Practitioner Higher Apprenticeship - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Assistant Practitioner Higher Apprenticeship
Apply now
Apply now
Apprenticeship Course
Assistant Practitioner Higher Apprenticeship
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Benefits
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Next course date
September and January
Duration
2 years
Location
Online
Course description
This programme is aimed at individuals entering the Assistant Practitioner role, looking to develop their skills beyond those of the traditional Healthcare Support worker. Entrants will come from a wide variety of backgrounds reflecting the breadth of the health and social care workforce. The programme has been developed to reflect key policies shaping the workforce, the NHS, Health and Social Care sectors today with the skills and attributes needed within the workforce to deliver care with compassion and to ensure the best outcomes for patients and service users. The programme has been developed through close consultation and collaboration with employers and is directly linked to the delivery of care in practice.
Join a foundation degree course aligned to the national apprenticeship standards set by IFATE
Look forward to excellent career prospects: 100% of our graduates were employed or continued onto further study on completion of the course
Benefit from some of the best university facilities of their kind, including clinical skills suites and our state-of-the-art immersive suites
Learn from a highly experienced and enthusiastic teaching team who provide full support to help you achieve your ambitions.
Choose one of these pathways
Online delivery - one day per week
Nursing Pathway
There are nursing modules available such as Essential Clinical Skills and Medicines Management which will help tailor the programme towards the nursing profession.  There are also mental health modules which would be of benefit to Assistant Practitioners working in any setting.  Assistant Practitioners completing this pathway can enter the Nursing Degree Apprenticeship at the beginning of Year 2.
Radiography Pathway
We have a well-established radiography pathway that caters for different modalities and enables progression to the Radiography Apprenticeship at the halfway stage.  If you want to become a Diagnostic Radiographer, it will take 2 years as an Assistant Practitioner plus 18 months on the Radiography Apprenticeship progression programme.
Theatres Pathway
The Assistant Practitioner role within theatres is growing as organisations look at their workforce mix and look to upskill to take on higher-level duties.  Through undertaking theatre modules as part of this programme, Assistant Practitioners can enter the Operating Department Practitioner Degree Apprenticeship at the beginning of Year 2.
Occupational Therapy Pathway
There are Occupational Therapy modules available to select, such as, Occupation & Wellbeing, Guiding Principles & Practice, Falls & frailty, Independence Dignity & Occupation.  By taking these modules Assistant Practitioners can enter the Occupational Therapy Degree Apprenticeship at the beginning of Year 2.
Maternity Pathway
The Assistant Practitioner Maternity is a full-time apprenticeship, which awards graduates with a foundation degree and can serve as a pathway toward a career in midwifery. The Cert HE/FdSc Assistant Practitioner (Maternity) developed with local maternity providers prepares students for various roles in maternity settings as skilled, senior Maternity Support Workers, meeting the Health Education England Competency and Development Framework standards.
The Assistant Practitioner Maternity pathway is delivered one day per week, encouraging students to engage in teaching and learning activities in both academic and clinical practice settings. Students will explore maternity-focused modules that will enable them to undertake in-depth studies relevant to their role within maternity services. They will gain the skills and knowledge required to care for women, babies, and their families per their scope of practice. The course has been carefully designed to provide students with the skills necessary to undertake the role of senior maternity support worker assisting midwives and working within the wider maternity team. Students will have the opportunity to develop their knowledge, skills, and behaviours relating to their roles such as delivering compassionate care, effective communication, responsibility and accountability, assisting at births, health promotion, and infant feeding to name but a few.
This apprenticeship requires applicants to be employed in a maternity setting and have the support of their employer. Candidates need Level 2 Maths & English/GCSE Grade 4 (C) or equivalent before applying.
Structure, certificates and assessment
Our assessment approaches are varied and include poster presentations, exam, essays, assignments, case based discussions and practical skills assessments.
Our teaching team includes qualified health professionals with extensive experience of nursing and leadership roles within the NHS as well as nurse education. They have professional interests across children’s, mental health learning disability nursing as well as Occupational therapy and science.
Your Programme Leader, Julia Woodland, has 25 years’ experience as Registered Nurse (Adult) as well as being a qualified teacher for over 10 years.
Stage one - 1 year
Core Modules
Communicating Health Promotion - 40 credits
Developing Safe Care - 30 credits
Practise Module - 10 credits (pass/fail module)
Work with employer organised placements
Student selected modules (choose two - 20 credits)
Mental Health Across the Lifespan
Occupation and Wellbeing
Work Based Project
Complex Health and Social Care Needs in Maternity Settings
Essential Clinical Skills
Maternity Care and Skills
Occupational Therapy
Guiding Principles and Practice
Principles of Scrub and Circulating Practice
Principles of Anaesthetic Practice
Radiographic Imaging
Science and Technology of Imaging
Introduction to Computed Tomography
Introduction to Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Stage two - 1 year and 3 months for the EPA
Core Modules
Leadership and Learning - 30 credits
Practice Module - 10 credits (pass/fail module) including preparation for the EPA
End Point Assessment - 40 credits
Work with employer organised placement
Student selected modules (choose two - 20 credits)
Falls and Frailty
Independence, Dignity and Occupation
Listen Without Prejudice
Music and Care
Work Based Project
Medicines Management
Assisting at Births
Care of the Mother and
Newborn in the Postnatal Period
Caring for People with Learning Disabilities
Human Anatomy and Physiology for Healthcare
Developing Anaesthetic Practice
Developing Scrub and Circulating Practice
Anatomy and Physiology for ODP
Developing Imaging Practice
Diagnostics and the Patient Journey
Request more information about our apprenticeship programmes
Want to talk to a member of the team about our apprenticeship programmes? Make an enquiry and a member of our team will get in contact with to provide you with more information about our apprenticeships, and how our programmes can up-skill your workforce.
Request more information about apprenticeships
Request more information about apprenticeships
Benefits
Delivered online, accessible for all
This programme is delivered via our Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) platform, meaning that students do not need to attend campus for lecture. This means that the programme and training can be accessed remotely from anywhere in the UK.
In tune with latest developments
This course is closely mapped against the needs of employers, which will ensure that your learning is up to date and relevant. In delivering the programme, we respond to national changes such as latest government policies. As a result, some of the information about the course may change.
As health care is increasingly delivered by multi professional teams, we offer opportunities at each stage of the course for you to learn with, and from, students from other disciplines. This is really important in preparing you to work in more flexible ways after graduation. By learning to work together, you can help achieve the best outcomes for your patients.
Entry requirements
Strongly Recommended Qualifications (your employer may set these as entry criteria):
Level 2 English (GCSE Grade 4-9, GCSE Grade A-C, Level 2 Functional Skills English, Key Skills Level 2 Communication or equivalent)
Level 2 Maths (GCSE Grade 4-9, GCSE Grade A-C, Level 2 Functional Skills Maths, Key Skills Level 2 Application of Number (Numeracy) or equivalent
To apply for this apprenticeship you must currently be in paid employment of at least 30 hours per week. Your employer must cover the costs of the apprenticeship.
Interview information
Fees and funding
Employers
Cost of the apprenticeship will normally be in line with the funding band £12,000, but individual agreements will be considered depending on student numbers and involvement of employers.
Apprentices
Fees will be paid by your employer with government funded support or through the apprenticeship levy.
Additional costs and optional extras
How to apply
Applications to this apprenticeship must be made through the employer. If you are an individual who is not yet employed within this sector, you may find the following links useful:
Health Careers
Royal College of Nursing
Contact us
Apprenticeship Hub
Email:
apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk
Phone:
01332 593092
Additional information about your studies
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
The information below is correct for entry in the academic year September 2020 - August 2021 only. Entry for future academic years may be subject to change.
Included in your fees
Travel and accommodation expenses associated with placements are to be met Travel will be reimbursed if it exceeds travel to and from the University campus base
Uniforms
Name badges and ID holders
DBS Check
Occupational Health Check.
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Textbooks for skills sessions and placements
Optional costs not included in your fees
Professional NMC membership required to practice. More details can be found on the
NMC website
Travel to elective placement in year three if the student chooses to go out of usual placement locations
Textbooks to supplement anything available through the library various prices depending on the content
Printing costs of course materials
Students may opt to engage in international trips and activities that are not fully funded, though bursaries may be available
Optional outings and trips will also require self-funding.
Other courses you might like
Assistant Practitioner FdSc