Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/sport-exercise-science-courses/athlete-professional-development-fda/

Athlete Professional Development FdA - Sport and Exercise Science - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Sport and Exercise Science
Athlete Professional Development FdA
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Athlete Professional Development
FdA
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 2 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Developed in collaboration with ProChance Football, this foundation degree will help you future-proof your career. As a promising sportsperson and/or sports official, you are focused on your performance on the pitch and pursuing your dreams to play/officiate professionally. Your life off the pitch is crucial too, and it’s important to plan for your future after sport.
This flexible and unique foundation degree allows you to do that, and receive a recognised qualification for doing so. You’ll be able to train and play full-time, while studying and working towards your degree.
The blocked on-campus delivery and remote study methods have been designed to support elite/professional players and officials.
The course places you at the core of the programme, focusing on your personal and professional development; you’ll explore:
Your life so far and your future plans
Your values, beliefs and motivations
What you want from your life in and after sport
How to be successful during your playing/officiating career and afterwards
How self-reflection can help shape your future life and career choices
You will:
Learn from our expert teaching team who are actively involved in research, high-performance sport and applied sport science consultancy. They are also members of leading professional bodies
Use state-of-the-art equipment in our
Sports Centre
Put theory into practice through work-based learning in both years of your studies. You'll have the opportunity to apply the skills you learn within the modules to roles within the host organisation such as coaching, teaching, sports administration, event support and mentoring
Once you finish the course, you’ll not only have formal recognition of a foundation degree on your CV, but you’ll also be in a position where your next career step will be an extension of your current sporting life. It can also be a stepping stone to further development through a BA (Hons) Sport Coaching and Development Top-up.
Develop a wide skill set
In your first year you’ll explore how to develop personally and professionally and look after your physical and mental wellbeing. You’ll explore positive communication, including counselling skills and techniques, and learn about team working, which will help develop your confidence in leadership.
During your second year you’ll complete an independent project, reflecting on sporting communities and their place in your life and others. You’ll explore ethics on a personal and societal level and apply these to current issues. You’ll also develop and use your business skills to plan and implement products and services – a valuable preparation for the next stage in your career.
Sport and Exercise Science - your questions answered
In the below video, Head of School for Sport and Exercise Science, Andy Hooton, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Sport and Exercise Science at the University of Derby.
View Sport and Exercise Science - your questions answered! video transcript
Managing Excellence
When Mark Faghy first arrived in Derby as a teenage undergraduate, he stated proudly that his goal was to become manager of the England football team. Now he is a respected research academic leading an international collaboration in the fight against Covid. And his students are helping.
Read Mark's story
Read Mark's story
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
This programme includes traditional academic study with practical application and work-based learning to offer a unique experience. This course is delivered in blocks and has been designed to meet your needs.
We use a range of assessment methods, including traditional formats such as written papers, presentations and portfolios. In addition to these we use less traditional methods such as blogs, vlogs and interviews to assess your progress. These reflect work-based elements of your course and will help you prepare for your future career.
Who you'll be taught by
You'll be taught by a range of academics with excellent expertise in the area, including:
Jon Woodward
: Jon has more than 25 years’ experience as a coach and coach educator at all levels. He has worked with football clubs including Derby County, Burton Albion and Middlesbrough, as well as with UK Coaching as a Coach Advisor and Lead Coach Educator.
Andy Borrie
: Andy has 30 years' experience of working in elite sports, coaching and education. As well as teaching he is also an independent consultant and executive coach working with clients in sport, business, education and the military both in the UK and abroad - these include the Premier League and NATO
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
N/A
BTEC
MPP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 and 15 at Level 2
Additional entry requirements
This course is only open to applicants from ProChance Football or Litchfield Football Club (in any role.)
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
N/A
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
For September 2024
To welcome you to our team, you'll receive a University of Derby, Sport and Exercise Science t-shirt.
If a DBS check is needed for the purposes of a module or programme related work placement, this is included in your fee if done via the University.
For other additional qualifications that you're interested in, we may contribute to or fund these but this is at the Sport department's discretion.
You will also take part in field trips to organisations and venues that are relevant to your module, the cost of which is covered by the University.
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
If not already owned, appropriate clothing for practical sessions such as tracksuit bottoms and trainers - approximate cost is £50 to £100
Optional costs not included in your fees
Lots of e-books are available for free through the University Library, however you may wish to purchase a hard copy of these at your own expense.
You may wish to undertake additional qualifications as part of your studies, costs will vary depending on your choice.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Upon completion of the course, you will be given the opportunity to progress onto our BA (Hons) Sport Coaching and Development.
You could also go on to pursue a career in football or other professional sports roles such as academy coach, performance analyst, sport scientist or strength and conditioning coach.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time