Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/psychology-courses/behaviour-change-msc/

Behaviour Change (incorporating PG Dip/PG Cert) MSc - Psychology - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Psychology
Behaviour Change (incorporating PG Dip/PG Cert) MSc
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Behaviour Change (incorporating PG Dip/PG Cert)
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Part-time: 3 years
UK fee
£1,050 per 20 credits
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
The first Master’s course of its kind, our MSc Behaviour Change programme opens doors to a wide range of fulfilling careers which focus on changing people’s behaviour and helping them to make positive choices.
Develop an in-depth understanding of human behaviour and behaviour change
Increase your confidence, skills and abilities to foster behaviour change in the context of a range of areas, such as wellbeing, safety or the natural environment
Specialise by selecting behaviours as part of the assessment process that align with the areas in which you wish to develop your expertise
Devise practical ways to promote behaviour change, underpinned by theory and evidence-based science
Learn from an enthusiastic and experienced team of research-active psychologists and ergonomists
Take a flexible route to a masters degree: you only need to visit the campus for an induction event and then for nine days each year
Progress your career in a vast aray of areas, such as the health and wellbeing sectors, environmental sustainability, animal welfare, local government and occupational health and safety – or take your learning to PhD level.
This is an original and topical course which challenges assumptions about behaviour change. It is aimed at professionals who want to gain new knowledge and skills to support their work, and at graduates from a broad range of disciplines who would like to specialise in behaviour change and add social science to their skill set.
100
%
Overall Satisfaction - MSc Behaviour Change
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
100%
overall satisfaction with the quality of the course
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
100%
of our students agreed that the course is intellectually stimulating
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
100%
of our students agreed that the course has enhanced their academic ability
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
View Duncan Aspin talking about our MSc Behaviour Change video transcript
Learning how to adapt to change
Graduate Gerry Mulholland works for global grocery technology business the Ocado Group as Global Health, Safety and Environmental Director. The skills and knowledge he learned on our course have helped him develop his role.
Read Gerry's story
Read Gerry's story
Pioneering a new area of study
Behaviour change has found a place at the heart of UK policy making, with an emphasis on finding innovative ways of encouraging, enabling and supporting people to make better choices for themselves.  It plays a key role in health, safety and environmental initiatives.
Our MSc fills a gap in high quality postgraduate education covering this topical subject. It covers psychological theories and models so that you can develop a greater understanding of human behaviour and behaviour change.
You’ll also gain the transferable skills you need to design, deliver and evaluate interventions that provide opportunities for people to change in a variety of practical contexts.
A flexible learning experience
Our course has a structure as innovative as its content, enabling you to integrate your studies with your work and other commitments. It features three-day study blocks at our Kedleston Road campus, totalling nine days per year. You’ll also engage in guided learning and research activities at times to suit you.
You can either complete the full MSc over three years, or take a ‘step-off’ award after one year with the generic Postgraduate Certificate or after two years with the Postgraduate Diploma.
You will have the chance to apply module coursework to specialist contexts that matter to you, are career relevant, and aligned with practical experience.
In your masters research project in the final year, you will then conduct an independent study into an aspect of behaviour change which relates to your chosen area.
The campus-based induction of this programme tends to fall within the middle week of September.
A teaching team to inspire you
You’ll be taught by a dedicated team of psychology and ergonomics experts whose research underpins and enriches this course. They are conducting studies into a broad spectrum of topics including body esteem, the management of painful conditions, smoking cessation, coping with stress, ageing and social inclusion, health and safety, people’s connection to nature, and language and communication.
Our staff have close links with professional bodies such as the British Psychological Society as well as major employers and stakeholders within the health, ergonomics and environmental sectors. Thanks to these wider professional networks, the course features opportunities for you to hear from influential guest speakers who can share their experiences of behaviour change interventions.
As part of our thriving academic community, we also have a  which advances our studies in everything from wellbeing, health and weight loss to anxiety and compassion. It offers a range of consultancy services and runs regular research seminars.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
This course is made up of three stages: Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma, and MSc.
Postgraduate Certificate
In year one, you’ll study three modules such as:
Psychology for Behaviour Change
- You will learn about psychology as a science and explore psychological approaches to learning, cognition, individual differences and social factors in order to critically reflect on how research in these areas is relevant to an understanding of behaviour
Theories and Models of Behaviour
- You will learn about the major models, theories, and approaches to behaviour. You will critically consider how intentions, attitudes, values, and other factors shape behaviour and behaviour change. Factors impacting on behaviour will be considered including the individual, the social environment, and the physical environment, and both short-term and long-term aspects of behaviour and behaviour change
Applied Behaviour Change Interventions
- You’ll gain the knowledge and skills required to propose, design and evaluate an evidence-based workplace or community behaviour change intervention
Postgraduate Diploma
In your second year, you’ll study a further three modules. The first two modules will help you develop an extensive repertoire of research and evaluation skills applicable to running projects and initiatives in a variety of settings. In your third module you'll develop your skills in embedding behaviour change.
Quantitative Research, Evaluation and Behaviour Change Application -
you'll analyse, report and evaluate empirical quantitative research and behaviour change interventions in applied contexts.
Qualitative Research, Evaluation and Behaviour Change Application -
you’ll design, conduct, report and evaluate empirical research in an applied leadership context using text-based data and a qualitative approach. Qualitative approaches add rich insights to the evaluation of interventions in real world settings.
Sustaining Behaviour Change -
for the final taught module, attention shifts to considering the psychological and contextual conditions for sustaining behaviour change in the realities of organisational settings. This will draw on systems thinking and research and be considered against the context of established and emerging areas of behaviour change application including Positive Psychology, Environmental Sustainability, Health and Safety and Organisational Culture.
MSc
At this final stage, you only study one module which runs over three terms:
Research Project in Behaviour Change
- you’ll identify a research issue related to behaviour change in your chosen area, review existing literature, formulate novel research questions and test these questions.
Under the supervision of a member of the programme team, you’ll identify a research issue related to behaviour change in your chosen area, review existing literature, formulate novel research questions and - applying all relevant ethical guidelines and principles - test these questions through the application of contemporary psychological methodologies and appropriate data analysis and scientific report writing.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You’ll be taught by a dedicated team of research-active psychologists and ergonomists who all have expert knowledge of psychological theory, practice, and research. You’ll benefit from exchanges with students across our behaviour change areas, thus increasing your multidisciplinary outlook. As part of the course you’ll undertake your own research project, specialising in an area of behaviour change that particularly interests you and that is relevant to your current work or career aspirations.
Our MSc Behaviour Change programme combines research-led teaching with an innovative portfolio of assessments to ensure you develop both the knowledge and transferable skills necessary for employment in a number of sectors promoting behaviour change.
The course is offered as a part-time degree and it is unique in that it combines periods of flexible learning throughout the duration of each term with on-campus study blocks amounting to a total of nine days attendance per year. Each module has an on-campus study block of three days of lectures, seminars and guided activities. In addition, you have access to our bespoke study materials and learning activities which you’ll engage with in your own time, giving you the flexibility to study at the most convenient time and place for you. The nine-day on-campus attendance per year fits well with a typical ten-day industry allocation for staff development, so if you’re self-funding it allows you to continue to work full-time. In addition, new students attend our two-day induction event at the start of the academic year.
Assessment
You'll be assessed via coursework. There will be many activities to thoroughly prepare you for your coursework. Assessments are matched to the individual module learning outcomes, which are derived from the course aims and learning outcomes.
An expert teaching team
Dr Jenny Lunt
- Managing occupational conditions in the workplace, including recovery
at work, and organisational cultures as applied to health and safety and the broader sustainability agenda
Dr Sigrid Lipka
- Language and communication, working memory, dual-tasking, exam anxiety, attentional biases to compassionate and critical emotions, malingering in neuropsychological and forensic settings
Dr Fiona Holland
- Health and wellbeing, especially body esteem, experiences of living in non-normative bodies, motivational interviewing, behaviour change and the benefits of well-being interventions on psychological health
Dr Amy Baraniak
- Behaviour change interventions for smoking cessation and reducing cardiovascular disease risk, the psychological impact of informal caregiving, management of  long term illness and disability
Professor James Elander
- Coping and pain management in painful chronic illnesses such as haemophilia and sickle cell disease, educational transitions, student writing and student assessment
Prof David Sheffield
- Performing under pressure; coping with stress; cultivating compassion
Dr Ruth Sims
- Inclusive design/design for all, accessibility and usability of products, services and environments by older and physically impaired individuals, ageing and social inclusion, digital exclusion, ageing workforce
Dr Caroline Harvey
- Embedding compassion in the Higher Education curriculum and supporting students to develop compassionate communication skills and
researching the relationship between nature and wellbeing and the benefits that people can gain from nature
Dr Carol Stalker
- Health psychology and wellbeing, exploring the quality of life in patients with coronary heart disease, compassionate approaches to weight loss maintenance and the impact of acceptance of illness and the impact on the quality of life for haemodialysis patients
Dr Ann Kirkman
- Positive Psychology, Optimism, and Wellbeing including student wellbeing and embedding wellbeing into the curriculum. Development of online wellbeing toolkits for education and learning
Dr Charlotte Scott
- Exercise psychology, eating disorders, compulsive exercise behaviours, athlete wellbeing and advanced quantitative methodology
Dr Carlos Aceves-Gonzalez
- Applying ergonomics and human factors to understand complex systems, the role or ergonomics and human factors in behaviour change and studying healthcare systems to improve quality, patient safety and the well-being of healthcare workers.
Who will teach you
Dr Jenny  Lunt
Programme Leader
Dr Jenny  Lunt
Dr Jenny Lunt is a lecturer in Health Psychology here at the University of Derby. Prior to joining the University of Derby, Jenny worked as an independent practitioner and as a principal psychologist within the health and safety execut...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You will need an undergraduate degree (lower second or above) or equivalent in a relevant subject or substantial professional experience.
The programme is currently only offered as a part-time degree.
Please note that the content of this programme is subject to change.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
N/A
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
N/A
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
N/A
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
N/A
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to essential software (SPSS and NVivo)
Access to any materials necessary for specific areas of behaviour change such as questionnaires and psychometric tests
Up to 20 inter-library loans per year
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Accommodation and travel costs to attend nine days of on-campus block study each academic year - costs will vary depending on where you are travelling from
Optional costs not included in your fees
Our Psychology department have a specially designed hooded jumper which is available for staff and students
Text books to supplement resources available through the library - costs are dependent on your choice
Printing costs of course materials if hard copy is desired- approximate cost is 5p per sheet
BPS membership if desired- approximate costs are £25 for a student member and £65 for a graduate member
If needed, an additional 20 inter-library loans per year - approximate cost is £2 each
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Our MSc Behaviour Change course could be your stepping stone to employment and promotion opportunities in areas, such as the health sector, local government, environmental and occupational health and safety roles.
It also provides a suitable qualification if you’re working in allied areas and want to progress your career by branching out into a specialist area. You could, for instance, be a physiotherapist or an occupational health and safety professional keen to broaden your skill set by focusing on behaviour change.
In addition, the MSc Behaviour Change provides a strong basis for further study in the form of a PhD.
Speeding up the 'climate change sloth'
To help us all psychologically and behaviourally adapt to meeting the challenges posed by net-zero targets, University of Derby Psychology lecturers have worked with MSc Behaviour Change students to generate some simple messages.
Read more about how we can all adapt to the climate change challenges
Read more about how we can all adapt to the climate change challenges
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Other courses you might like
Health Psychology MSc
Psychology MRes