Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/biology-zoology-courses/biology-bsc-hons/

Biology BSc (Hons) - Biology and Zoology - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Biology and Zoology
Biology BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Accredited by the Royal Society of Biology
Biology
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years,  Part-time: Up to 6 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
104
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
C100
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
The best bits
Focus on contemporary and future focused environmental and biotechnological applications of Biology
The Programme design is informed by and continually improved through dialogue with our accrediting body the Royal Society of Biology and other professional interactions of our academic staff
Facilities include an Aquatic Research Facility, glasshouse, insectary, and specialist laboratories
Your studies won’t be confined to the laboratory as fieldwork is an essential part of the course
Many of our teaching team are active researchers whose work is shaping debates in areas such as coral reef diseases, animal ecology, cell biology and insect reproduction, so your learning will be informed by the very latest research and developments
The content of this course is aligned to the priorities of global initiatives, like the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, to ensure you graduate with a skill set that can help tackle global challenges
Get career-ready through work placement and internship opportunities. This course can be studied with or without an Industrial Placement Year
Biology and Zoology - your questions answered
Programme Leader for Biology Dr David Elliott answers your frequently asked questions about Biology and Zoology.
View Biology and Zoology - your questions answered! video transcript
Why study Biology
The
Biology
programme
at Derby encourages and enables students to become game changers in the modern economy, through developing knowledge, skills, and personal
effectiveness
in an integrated programme which is supportive of diverse needs and interests.
It takes an inter-disciplinary approach where all scientific skills are valued in the context of potential applicability in the biosciences and collaborating with other subject specialists, supported by the staff of different discipline areas.
Many Biological processes are essentially circular in nature, providing a model for transitioning society to a circular economy which engineers out material and energy wastage. Governments, companies and inter-governmental agencies are investing in Biology because they see this potential and the economic need not only for environmental solutions, but also for the significant business opportunities enabled by recent progress in the Biosciences. Enormous advances in DNA sequencing technologies and related “omics”, plus the computational capacity to support these are transforming our understanding of Biology, leading to opportunities for enhancing health, wellbeing, and environment. Hence, Biology is a highly inter-disciplinary subject where collaboration with the other sciences is of key importance to success, ensuring that Biologists can play a role in all walks of life.
The world is being severely impacted by human pressures including climate change, overexploitation of natural capital, and irreversible biodiversity loss on a massive scale. These and other issues collectively represent an existential threat to humanity, and biology is at the cutting-edge for providing sustainable solutions. This programme answers the call from the UN, through UNESCO’s Education for Sustainable Development (ESD), to address the urgent and dramatic challenges to our planet, and to people. The module content and practical skills within the curriculum prepare graduates to make a positive impact on climate change, biodiversity loss, unsustainable resource use and inequality.
For people who want to be part of these solutions Biology is the ideal subject - enabling graduates to enter the workplace doing jobs that make a difference whether that is in the lab, in the field, or in the office.
View our Biology at the University of Derby  video transcript
Top
15
for assessment and feedback
BSc (Hons) Biology - National Student Survey 2024
90
%
of students agreed that staff are good at explaining things
BSc (Hons) Biology - National Student Survey 2024
Expert teaching
You will be taught by experts in their fields who are passionate about their subjects and enabling you to succeed. All teaching staff are engaged in their subject beyond teaching, ensuring that they can teach up-to-date content with relevant insight from their personal experience in the field.
Their wide-ranging work includes research into:
Improving the resilience of coral reefs to climate change
Plant conservation and biotechnology
Biodiversity ecosystem functioning
Cell biology
The evolution of primates
Insect reproduction and behaviour
Animal ecology
Coral Reef systems and megafauna
Soil microbiology
We strongly encourage prospective students to take a look at the projects being carried out in our
Environmental Sustainability Research Centre (ESRC)
and become inspired by the scope and reach of Biology research at Derby. We actively support and enable our students to become involved in our projects.
You will be assigned a personal tutor who will help you in your own personal development to become an expert in your own right, according to your interests and ambitions.
How we're helping corals survive
Our Aquatic Research Facility is carrying out work with organisations across the globe to make coral reefs more resilient in the face of man-made afflictions.
Read more about how we're helping corals
Read more about how we're helping corals
Excellent fieldwork opportunities
Fieldwork is a vital element of this course and so every stage your studies will be enriched with fieldwork opportunities - the cost of mandatory fieldwork is included in your course fee. Through our fieldwork programme, we introduce students to a variety of survey techniques for a wide range of species, such as:
studying animal interaction at Twycross Zoo
conducting ecological projects in Mallorca
those selecting our optional
Tropical Marine Biology
module have undertaken scientific investigations in the Maldives
investigating plant adaptations at the Royal Botanical Gardens at Kew
exploring Toyota Motor Manufacturing UK Burnaston, to survey wildlife in their nature conservation area
You’ll also have access to Cuckoos Tor, a site on the edge of the Peak District National Park and owned by the University of Derby that is dedicated to long-term research and ecological experiments. Current projects include restoration ecology, natural flood risk management, community engagement with biodiversity, and sustainable land management - and you’ll be able to get involved.
For further practical experience, you'll have plenty of opportunity to apply for work placements and paid internships. All of this means you'll be well placed to launch your career, whether you are looking for a graduate job or are planning to go into further study or research.
Student Stories
Ines gained hands-on experience in the Maldives
Ines Leal is fascinated by wildlife, ecosystems and human biology. Eager to explore these interests, our Biology course offered the perfect opportunity to combine her passions.
Sarah's research aims to help save the bees
BSc (Hons) Biology graduate, Sarah completed a fully funded research project into the dangers our bees are currently facing through our Undergraduate Research Scholarship Scheme.
Beth Secures her dream job
Our BSc (Hons) Biology course provided the building blocks for Beth's career. She undertook a range of work placements that helped to develop new skills and knowledge.
Accredited course
Royal Society of Biology
Our accreditation from the
Royal Society of Biology (RSB)
follows an independent and rigorous assessment, ensuring that the degree provides a solid academic foundation in biological knowledge, key technical abilities, and transferrable skills.
This means that, when you graduate, you will meet the requirements for Associate Membership of the Society (AMRSB), and after appropriate professional experience you can then apply for full membership, which is widely recognised throughout the industry and by potential employers.
Specialist facilities
Our facilities include high-specification laboratories with modern instrumentation, such as:
Digital Microscope (Keyence VHX7000
) - imaging (3D stacking and measurements) from microbes to whole organisms
Scanning electron Microscope
- low-high magnification of samples
Upright and Inverted Fluorescent Microscopes - i
maging from slides ranging from cells to whole organisms
Infrared Gas analyser -
measuring greenhouse gas processes in relation to land use
FTIR analysis FTIR (Agilent Technologies – Cary 630 FTIR)
- analysis soil samples and monitor air and water quality
Bench Top Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) -
measures fat, oil and grease in wastewater
AAS, GC FID HPLC, GCMS Auto-titrator
We also have a glasshouse with plants from diverse habitats, a microbiology lab that will aid your learning of biotechnology, an insectary housing many different species, an Aquatic Research Facility and our dedicated student research laboratory gives you a dedicated space for your independent study project at the end of your degree - take a
virtual tour
.
New Bioscience Superlab
The University of Derby has been awarded £5.8 million from the Office for Students (OfS) to develop a new technology enhanced Bioscience Superlab and Research Lab with an opening date in 2025.
Find out more about the Superlab and Research Lab
Find out more about the Superlab and Research Lab
Partnerships that open doors for you
We work closely with organisations such as Sea Life, Derbyshire Wildlife Trust, Derby Museums, and the Olive Ridley Project. These partnerships pave the way to work experience and internship opportunities where you can apply your skills in real world situations. They also give you access to field sites, employer-led projects and guest lectures – all of which broaden your perspective on the wealth of career opportunities open to Biology graduates.
We are currently working with Derbyshire Wildlife Trust and Derby City Council on
rewilding Allestree Park
. This is the UK’s largest rewilding space which has involved a community consultation to find out what local people want. Some of our students are already working on independent studies projects in the park, with one test-driving the citizen science protocols for monitoring the changes in the park as the rewilding continues.
We have also just won two associate Knowledge Transfer Partnership with Derbyshire Wildlife Trust, lasting two years, to predict the trajectory of rewilding ecosystems. This will enable you to learn about the remote sensing and modelling we use for this. It will also enable staff to further stretch their research impact in a complex and growing subject area, as well as providing the chance to apply cutting edge, technical research to commercial activities.
We have also been working for several years with
Down to Earth Derby
, on nature-based regeneration and connecting communities with nature and growing food. A major project we are working on at the moment, with the Eden Project, is a community garden on part of Sturgess Fields, a site owned by the University between Kedleston Road and Markeaton Street sites. The plan is to create a New Commons that will be managed with the community. There are lots of opportunities for you to work on here, both in creating and maintaining the site, undertaking ecological monitoring and getting involved in community education programmes.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You’ll learn through lectures, seminars, tutorials, e-learning, hands-on laboratory practical work and fieldwork in the UK and overseas. Our varied teaching methods help you show your individual strengths and enhance your understanding. Prioritising personal development in terms of skills, knowledge, and career planning.
The programme has at its core 40 credits worth of “through” modules in every year stage. These modules are used by programme leaders to ensure continued contact and coaching of students throughout their programme of study, thus provisioning a built-in capacity for the scaffolding of personal development which is co-delivered through tutorials
Work placements
Placements allow you to develop the skills you learn at University and apply them to real world situations. This is something which potential employers are always looking for. We encourage you to gain experience with potential employers by offering a range of internships. BSc (Hons) Biology graduate, Eryk Gadomski carried out a work placement at Peak Wildlife Park and developed many transferable skills.
View Eryk Gadomski's video transcript
Assessment
You’ll be assessed using a range of written assignments including portfolios, practical and fieldtrip write-ups and data analysis, essays, computer-based assessments, poster presentations and seminar presentations, as well as traditional written examinations.
We take an authentic approach to assessment for learning whereby students learn as part of the assessment process rather than learning for the assessment. Practical assessment and record of skills ensures that all graduates can evidence a core skill set in biology plus more advanced skill development in selected areas according to student choices within the programme.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr David Elliott
Programme Leader
Dr David Elliott
Dr. David Elliott is a microbial ecologist specialising in the roles of microbes in low productivity soils including drylands and the cryosphere. He leads the BSc (hons) Biology programme and teaches a variety of topics in Human and En...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
104
A Level
BCC (At least a grade C in Biology (or equivalent qualification))
T Level
Merit in Science
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6. Must include passes in compulsory Level 3 subjects
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
All equipment and consumables needed for your experimental/ fieldwork are provided by the University. Consumables for the Independent Study, subject to costing approval by your programme leader
Free membership of the Royal Society of Biology for a year after graduation
Mandatory fieldtrips in optional modules: Previous destinations have included Kew Gardens, Sea Life Centre and the Peak District
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
If not already owned, appropriate footwear for fieldwork such as Wellington/Walking boots - approximate cost is between £10-£100
If not already owned, appropriate outdoor clothing such as a waterproof jacket and trousers - approximate cost is between £50-£100
Optional costs not included in your fees
Recommended textbooks - approximate cost is £60
Additional international fieldtrip costs for optional modules as follows: Field Biology L5 - approximate cost is £600, Tropical Marine Biology L6 (Maldives) - approximate cost is £3000
Travel to work experience/placements - cost is dependent on your placement venue of choice
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
We're serious about getting you started in your career, whether you've already decided what you want to do or need to find inspiration. With opportunities for internships, volunteering and placements, our hands-on approach to study will ensure you're ready for the world of work. Biology at Derby provides an excellent platform for a broad range of scientific careers, such as:
Molecular Consultant
Crop Development Scientist
Patent Adviser
Biologics Production Technician
Quality Laboratory Manager
Aquaculture Entrepreneur
Synthetic Biology Biotechnologist
Clinical Trials Co-ordinator
Research Scientist
Pharmacy Technician
Medical Laboratory Assistant
Wildlife Conservation Officer
Health Care Assistant
Some graduates progress to teaching and lecturing careers after completing postgraduate study, or have advanced to gain veterinary and medical qualifications.
Through our Professional Development Package, you'll gain valuable skills, including:
Scientific writing and use of scientific software
Written and verbal communication
Research and statistical analysis
Data handling and analysis
Personal motivation, organisation and self-reflection
Digital competency
Laboratory and fieldwork analysis
Critical awareness
Project management
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Biology with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Zoology BSc (Hons)
Zoology with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Environmental Sustainability BSc (Hons)
Environmental Sustainability with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)