Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/biomedical-science-human-biology-courses/biomedical-science-bsc-hons-foundation/

Biomedical Science with Foundation Year BSc (Hons) - Biomedical Science and Human Biology - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Biomedical Science and Human Biology
Biomedical Science with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Biomedical Science with Foundation Year
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
C3FY
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
The highlights
The course focuses on developing your practical laboratory skills, so you'll gain first-hand experience of lab work from year one
You'll also spend time honing your interpersonal skills and general employability, so you can move on to a diverse range of careers in clinical and public health laboratories, industry and research settings
The course is accredited by the
Institute of Biomedical Science
. Once successfully completed, this degree will fast-track your journey towards registration as a biomedical scientist with the Health and Care Professions Council
All of our teaching team are active researchers as well as teachers, so they will be able to share some of the latest findings and innovative thinking from the human health field
This is a progressive, challenging course which focuses on the latest advances in medical research aimed at preventing ill health and prolonging life. The devastating COVID-19 pandemic has increased demand for skills in this area, so this degree is highly relevant right now and you can expect to have strong career prospects.
Biomedical Science is a broad discipline of modern medical science. It is all about understanding human health and the diseases that affect the normal processes in the human body, including their diagnosis. On this degree you'll gain the skills and knowledge to understand the operation of human organisms through subjects like clinical chemistry, immunology, microbiology, histology, clinical genetics, molecular biology, pathology and cancer biology.
Top
15
for student satisfaction with feedback
BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science, The Guardian University Guide 2024
Top
15
for students satisfaction
BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science - Complete University Guide 2025
Top
25
for learning resources
BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science, National Student Survey 2024
Training you for research
During the programme, you will gain an understanding of biomedical investigations, diagnosis, monitoring and disease treatment. There's a strong focus on laboratory research and you will gain first-hand experience of this from year one. You will have access to a student research laboratory and regularly get the chance to conduct scientific investigations — sometimes in a group and sometimes on your own. You will also need to report your findings to others, including at a student conference attended by employers.
As well as giving you this practical experience, we will of course teach you the essential underpinning knowledge around research governance, ethics, and good scientific practice. In your final year, you will have the opportunity to demonstrate the research skills you have amassed, with an independent study into an area of your choice. This will be a lab-based study or one that uses clinical data.
Expert teaching
All of our Biomedical Science teaching team are active human health researchers as well as experienced teachers. This means that in your lectures, practicals, and seminars they will be able to draw upon and discuss some of the latest findings and innovative thinking from the field. You will also hear from NHS professionals and other external speakers.
Our tutors are currently carrying out collaborative research in areas such as:
Infectivity and pathophysiology of COVID-19 and other viral pandemics
Air pollution and its effects on a growing placenta
The link between Human Papillomavirus (HPV) and head and neck cancer
Tumour biology
Obesity
Diabetology
Developmental physiology
Antibody and Aptamer research.
As a Biomedical Science student, you will be able to apply for competitive research internships and if you're successful, you'll find yourself assisting with influential studies with academic staff. This will be valuable experience and make a great addition to your CV.
Specialist facilities
You will be able to use a range of analytical and biomedical equipment including:
Facility for Omics Research in Metabolism (FORM)
:
We have recently secured £850k of capital funding to establish this new facility. This ultra-modern, innovative research facility will provide training in the new and emerging fields of genomics, transcriptomics and proteomics.
Scanning Electron Microscope
: We
mainly use this for medical research, exploring everything from human/animal tissue infrastructure to bacteria and viruses. It's also useful in vaccination testing.
High-Performance Liquid Chromatography
: This has a variety of uses including quantifying plasma levels of drugs and their metabolites.
It is also used in the measurement of biogenic substances that help in diagnosis.
Gas Chromatography
: We use this for various medical activities, including bioanalysis of body fluids, detecting pollutants and metabolites in serum, and for fatty acid profiling in microbes.
Fluorescent Microscope
:
You may use this
to understand the cellular ultra-structure or sub cellular organelles.
Atomic Absorption Spectrometry
: Used to detect minute concentrations of toxic substances in blood.
Ion Chromatography
: Used to determine many ions and substances in clinical and pharmaceutical samples.
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR)
: Used to identify molecules and
for
diagnostic purposes.
We also have new molecular and cellular biology laboratories. These will help us conduct in vitro cell/tissue culture based investigations, so we can understand the pathophysiology and establish effect treatment strategies against cancer, age-related disorders (such as dementia), diabetes, pre-eclampsia and more.
New Bioscience Superlab
The University of Derby has been awarded £5.8 million from the Office for Students (OfS) to develop a new technology enhanced Bioscience Superlab and Research Lab with an opening date in 2025.
Find out more about the Superlab and Research Lab
Find out more about the Superlab and Research Lab
Preparing for your future career
We’re focused just as much on your professional and career development as your academic progress. We have regular employability sessions within modules as well as events such as the annual Bioscience and Forensic Science Employability Conference, employer forums, and placement year events.
We also have strong links with employers including hospital trusts, research institutions and biomedical companies. These links will really help when you're looking for work experience or internship opportunities. Everyone is expected to complete at least 30 hours of work experience in their second year, but on top of that you could choose to take a year in industry between years two and three of your course. This would super-charge your employability and your career prospects after graduation. We can help you find a placement and provide support during your year away.
Facility for Omics Research in Metabolism (FORM)
We have recently secured £850k of capital funding to establish this new facility. This ultra-modern, innovative research facility will provide training in the new and emerging fields of genomics, transcriptomics and proteomics.
Find out more about our Facility for Omics Research in Metabolism (FORM)
Find out more about our Facility for Omics Research in Metabolism (FORM)
Accredited course
The prestigious
Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS)
accreditation sets a quality benchmark which ensures that the course is delivered to a high standard, includes content relevant to current medical and research practice and is future ready.
This degree meets the academic and professional requirements for registration as a Biomedical Scientist. The course will provide comprehensive and up-to-date knowledge of core subjects, and offers the most recent developments in research and analytical methods.
Studying biomedical science at Derby will enhance your knowledge of science, its practical application to biomedical practice and related research. You will develop skills that are at the forefront of advances in healthcare, pharmaceutical research, and diagnostics, as well as transferable skills valued by a wide range of employers. We work closely with our local NHS pathology labs where you will get opportunity to develop your understanding of the profession.
Once completed, an IBMS accredited degree will enhance your employability by offering hands-on experience in the field of biomedical science.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
We use a good variety of teaching methods including:
Lectures, tutorials, workshops and seminars, which are interactive — these are sometimes led by external speakers from the NHS and other medical organisations
Laboratory sessions to develop your technical skills and ability to design experiments
Computer sessions to introduce you to the latest software for data analysis, genetic analysis and protein databases
Private study with online materials to support
You will also learn through work placements, internships or your year in industry, if you choose to do one.
How you are assessed
Assessments vary depending on the module but we use a range of assessment methods, including:
Coursework, such as:
Laboratory reports on experiments
Essays
Multiple-choice questions
Case studies
Oral presentations
An independent research study
Presentations and practical assessments
Unseen written or computer-based exams
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
You will receive goggles and a laboratory coat
All equipment and consumables needed for your experimental/ fieldwork are provided by the University. This is subject to the type of project and consumables being approved by your Programme Leader
If a DBS check is needed for the purposes of a module or programme related work placement, this is included in your fee if done via the University
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Most assignments are submitted through an online. However,  you are expected to produce a poster which would cost around £15
Optional costs not included in your fees
Lots of e-books are available for free through the University Library, however you may wish to purchase a hard copy of these at your own expense. Recommended textbooks - approximate cost is ¬£100
If a DBS check is needed for the purposes of a module or programme related work placement. Summer research internships offered on a competitive basis to second year students. You can also take a work placement credit-bearing module at Level 6, though you will need to find your own placement
Travel to work experience/placements - cost is dependent on your placement venue of choice
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
You will graduate with skills that put you at the forefront of advances in medical health. Biomedical science is key to any healthcare science and allows you to pursue a career in a broad range of fields, such as clinical sciences, pharmaceutical science, and biomedical research. However, thanks to the focus on employability and interpersonal skills within this programme, you won't be limited to a clinical role.
You’ll be well prepared for jobs such as:
Biomedical Scientist
Research Scientist​
Medical Professional​
Health Care Specialist​
Pharmaceutical Researcher​
Lecturer​
Teacher​
Scientific Writer​
Pharmaceutical Sales​ Executive
Clinical Trials Co-ordinator
You will gain valuable transferable skills, including:
Critical thinking
Data retrieval and analysis
Report writing and written communication skills
Time management and organisation
Presentation and verbal communication skills
These will be useful for any professional role and are sought-after by employers.
Further study
After graduating from this course, you could gain graduate entry on to programmes like physician associate studies, medicine or dentistry, or move on to a
postgraduate research degree
such as an MSc/MRes or PhD. We now offer our MSc Biomedical Health programme, which will provide an in-depth understanding of biomedical regulation of the human body and how this is impacted by disease, and also our
MRes Molecular Medicine
programme that will help you to develop the key skills you need for a research career.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
This is a new course so the data displayed via Discover Uni is for students studying in another subject area.
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Human Biology with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Human Biology BSc (Hons)
Biomedical Science BSc (Hons)
Chat to our students
−