Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/biomedical-science-courses/biomedical-science-msc/

Biomedical Science MSc - Biomedical Science - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Biomedical Science
Biomedical Science MSc
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Biomedical Science
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year
UK fee
£9,000 for the full course or £1,000 per 20 credits*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
This programme will allow you to gain an advanced understanding of clinical concepts of diseases and their pathophysiology, via laboratory-based investigation using cutting edge methodologies. You will learn critical reflection on biomedical theories and practice and develop a flexible approach to problem solving in biomedical science
You can choose one of three specialist options in the field of clinical immunology, advanced cellular pathology or clinical haematology and transfusion science. This offers you a chance to further pursue your interests in healthcare science
The course is accredited by the
Institute of Biomedical Science
,
which ensures a high standard of teaching is met
You will gain advanced research skills such as Multi-OMICS approach in disease diagnosis, drug development and understanding mechanistic intracellular pathways. You will be conducting independent research in University of Derby’s laboratories, NHS hospital pathology (subject to availability) and/or your workplace (subject to approval), under the supervision of highly qualified research active academics/pracademics
You will bridge the gap between an undergraduate degree and PhD or receive a stand-alone research qualification
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
100
%
of students agreed that their research skills have developed during the course
95
%
of students were satisfied with overall quality of the course
95
%
of students agreed staff are good at explaining things
Specialised facilities
We have specialised laboratory facilities available for your research projects. Our facilities will help develop lab skills required for laboratory projects and experiments. These include a molecular laboratory housing qPCR equipment, an imaging suite, human cell culture facility, a dedicated microbiology laboratory, and an analytical suite housing GC/MS, HPLC, AAS, UV-Vis, IC, as well as a scanning electron microscope.
We also have a
new £1.75 million Facility for Omics Research in Metabolism (FORM) at the University. This ultra-modern, research and innovation centre, provides training in the new and emerging fields of genomics, transcriptomics, and proteomics.
New Bioscience Superlab
The University of Derby has been awarded £5.8 million from the Office for Students (OfS) to develop a new technology enhanced Bioscience Superlab and Research Lab with an opening date in 2025.
Find out more about the Superlab and Research Lab
Find out more about the Superlab and Research Lab
Strong industry connections
We have strong connections with the University Hospitals of Royal Derby and Burton NHS Trust, Nottingham University Hospital Trust and other health care providers. This gives you the opportunity to collaborate with a range of organisations on your research project. This will allow you to network with professionals, enhance your career prospects and develop research that makes a real impact.
Experienced teaching team
Our staff expertise covers a diverse range of subjects and we have previously offered research projects in the following areas:
Infectivity and pathophysiology of Covid-19 and other viral pandemics
Air pollution and its effects on a growing placenta
The link between Human Papillomavirus (HPV) and head and neck cancer
Nanotechnology
Dementia
Obesity
Diabetology
Virology
Microbiology
Cancer research
Research systems at the larger spatial scale include investigating human lifestyle and socio-economic drivers of disease risk. These latest findings and innovative thinking from the field will shape your learning experiences.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You'll study modules such as:
Modules
Professional Skills in Biomedical Science
Applied Microbial Biotechnology
Current issues in Biomedical Science
Research Methods and Data Interpretation
Research Project
Optional (one to be selected from the following)
Clinical Haematology and Transfusion Medicine
Applied Immunology
Advanced Cellular Pathology
Please note that some of the modules may be co-taught with other postgraduate programmes.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Assessment will be used to track your success and to gauge the understanding and application of skills, and will combine different modes including essays, experimental (laboratory) reports, case studies, reflective portfolios, poster, and oral presentation. The research project will not only assess research skills and application but also advance writing skills by producing a journal style research article at the end of the programme.
Who will teach you
Dr Vadivel Parthsarathy
Programme Leader
Dr Vadivel Parthsarathy
Vadivel Parthsarathy is a Senior Lecturer in Biomedical Sciences at the University of Derby.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
A 2.2 UK Honours degree or above in biomedical science or related discipline with high proportion of Biomedical content, or an international equivalent
Evidence of competence in written and spoken English (GCSE grade C or equivalent)
Interview = Optional, subject to the status of the applicant. Alternative entry qualifications - Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL). Assessed on case-to-case basis
Additional Requirements - Working experience in NHS laboratories is desirable
English Language requirements
If English is not your first language, you will need Academic IELTS score of minimum 6.5 (with no band score less than 6.0)
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,000 for the full course or £1,000 per 20 credits*
N/A
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course or £1,055 per 20 credits*
N/A
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
You will receive goggles and a laboratory coat. All equipment and consumables needed for your experimental/ fieldwork are provided by the University. This is subject to the type of project and consumables being approved by your programme leader
If a DBS check is needed for the purposes of a module or programme related work placement, this is included in your fee if done via the University
Optional costs not included in your fees
In addition to the material provide, some students like to create their own forensic toolkit to support crime scene work - cost is dependent on the items you choose to purchase
All recommended books are available in our library; however, you may wish to purchase optional textbooks or e-books to support your studies - costs for these are dependent on your choice
This course is accredited by the Chartered Society of Forensic Science and so you can become an associate member whilst you are studying, if that is the case you must cover membership costs
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
As a biomedical science graduate, you’ll be equipped with skills which put you at the forefront of advances in the medical industry – the MSc qualification adds real substance to your CV, giving you an edge in the job market.
As a graduate, the careers you could work in include:
Biotechnologist
Clinical scientist
Research scientist
Genetic counsellor
Medical sales representative
Scientific writer/publisher
Further (L8)- PhD education
Drug development industry
Pharmaceutical Scientist
In addition, you’ll have a full complement of transferable skills – such as critical thinking, data analysis, report writing and communication – which are valued by employers and will stand you in good stead for any profession.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.