Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/radiography-courses/bone-densitometry-reporting-pg-cert/

Bone Densitometry Reporting PG Cert - Radiography - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Radiography
Bone Densitometry Reporting PG Cert
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Bone Densitometry Reporting
PG Cert
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Part-time: 15 months
Start dates
September, January
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Studying this flexible Postgraduate Certificate in Bone Densitometry Reporting at Derby will:
Increase your knowledge in the fields of fracture prevention through osteoporosis diagnosis and management
Enable you to tailor your learning by choosing specific modules, so that you advance your knowledge in areas you’re passionate about
Provide you with in-depth knowledge of DXA scanning and reporting. This Postgraduate Certificate also incorporates the University Certificate Continuing Professional Development in DXA Reporting for Clinicians
Engage you with an experienced and enthusiastic teaching team who are all health care professionals. They have also worked in a range of roles within the management of fracture risk, and utilise this experience in their teaching.
During this course, you’ll develop your understanding of osteoporosis and the role of DXA within the management of fracture risk.
A breadth of knowledge
Knowledge in the fields of fracture management and DXA continues to expand and students require a broader evidence-base to support their practice, not just in the area of fracture management and DXA but in the additional skills required to develop and lead projects and services. Therefore, to support this additional breadth of knowledge and skills, the Postgraduate Certificate in Bone Densitometry Reporting is incorporated within the MSc Leadership in Health and Social Care. This will provide students with increased opportunities to undertake a wider variety of modules appropriate for their professional development and clinical practice.
Advance your skills
We’ll encourage you to use a systematic approach in both your theoretical appraisal of research and your reporting of bone mineral density results. You’ll focus on patient management and develop the skills needed to work at an advanced practice level, recognising areas for change and improvement that will enhance your practice.
Professional support
Throughout this course, you’ll study with people from different professions, which will improve your understanding of osteoporosis and bone densitometry reporting across a wide range of health care settings.
It’s important that you have the support of an appropriate mentor in your workplace before you start this course. Your mentor and our tutors will help you to produce diagnostic reports that will inform the management and care of your patients.
We’re proud to say that our courses are closely mapped against the health and social care sector. This ensures that our curriculum is up-to-date, providing you with the assurance that your learning is current and relevant. This does mean that we do have to respond to national changes such as government policy.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You will develop and display a sound appreciation of the knowledge-base related to the theoretical principles of DXA reporting and fracture prevention and management. This requires you to critically reflect on the theoretical principles, and how they can be applied to work-based practice for the benefit and enhancement of patient/ client care.
You will critically review the current evidence-base underpinning DXA Reporting, and ensure continuous personal and professional development within this emerging clinical area.
To ensure this, you will need to negotiate a learning programme that will accredit your work-based activity and endorse your professional role within the field of DXA and osteoporosis/falls practice.
Ultimately, you will demonstrate the skills to become agents of change for enhanced practice in DXA and osteoporosis management.
Modules
You’ll study modules such as:
DXA Reporting for Clinicians
You’ll also study one further 20 credit module from the MSc Leadership in Health and Social Care course. This module can reflect an area of particular interest to you personally and professionally. You may choose to select a module directly related to bone densitometry reporting or you may choose to study a more generic module. Examples of modules available include:
You can study a range of modules included within the MSc Leadership in Health and Social Care which may include the following:
Advancing Practice
Assessment, Prevention and Management of Falls (Theory)
Principles of Service Improvement in the Workplace
Theoretical Considerations in the Diagnosis and Management of Osteoporosis
Work-Based Negotiated
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
How you're assessed
During this course you’ll develop a portfolio of reports and extended case studies, which have been independently reported on and include comments on technical aspects of the image as well as treatment recommendations. You’ll also include an audit of your reports compared with those of a trained practitioner.
You will be assessed in a written examination and a short written assignment on the role of Vertebral Fracture Assessment (VFA) too.
Teaching and learning
You’ll be taught by staff who are health care professionals and have worked in a range of roles within the management of fracture risk. They will support you throughout your study, sharing the latest developments in bone densitometry reporting. They’ve also contributed to national guidance on standards for DXA reporting, so you can be sure that the teaching you receive is up to date and of a high standard.
Entry requirements
You'll usually need:
A first degree or equivalent, such as a professional health care qualification and registration with a Professional Statutory and Regulatory Body with appropriate post registration experience
You must also be working as a physician, radiographer, technologist or nurse in a bone densitometry service with the support of the clinician with clinical responsibility of the service who will sign off the reflective portfolio
You must have completed appropriate IRMER training
You must have completed the NOS National Training Scheme for Bone Densitometry or the Postgraduate Certificate in Osteoporosis and Falls Management or have equivalent experience in an osteoporosis service that provides bone densitometry.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Careers
During this course you'll develop your understanding of osteoporosis and the role of DXA within the management of fracture risk. You will enhance your practice by using a systematic approach in both your theoretical appraisal of research as well as reporting bone mass density results. Your patient management skills will improve and you will have the ability to implement further activities within the field of fracture management and DXA reporting.
When you've completed this course you'll be able to confidently establish standards of practice in your workplace. When working with your mentor and the academic team within the university you will be guided to produce diagnostic reports on the management and care of your patients.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.