Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/online/bridge-to-geoenergy/

Bridge to GeoEnergy - Online short courses - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Online short courses
Bridge to GeoEnergy
Short course
Bridge to GeoEnergy
Book now
Book now
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Online course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Learning outcomes
Benefits
Fees and funding
Course requirements
Online course details
Price
£300 (includes VAT)
Next course date
Open now
Duration
6 units delivered over 6 weeks. 8 hours of study per unit
CPD hours
48 CPD hours
Delivery
Self-guided online learning
Location
Online
Online course description
GeoEnergy encompasses a broad spectrum of energy resources and technologies that form a critical component of the transition to a Net Zero Carbon future. This rapidly evolving field includes both traditional and innovative geologically focused energy generation and storage strategies as well as the provision of carbon mitigation technologies to the wider energy sector.
The outcomes of this self-guided course have been developed to ensure that you have the background knowledge and skills in those areas of the geosciences that are essential to embarking successfully on a study of GeoEnergy systems.
This highly focused course will provide you with an introduction to fundamental geological concepts before concentrating on those areas of geology that are particularly applicable to the GeoEnergy sector. It may be that you already work within the carbon-based energy industry and wish to transition your career or that you have a science or engineering background and wish to embark on a new career in GeoEnergy.
This short course is open to everyone but is particularly suited to those wishing to embark on a postgraduate degree in GeoEnergy. The course will be of particular interest to:
Non-geoscience graduates lacking the technical geoscience skills specifically required to pursue a Master of Science in GeoEnergy
Those currently, or previously, employed in the carbon-based energy sector who wish to transition to the fields of non-carbon geo-energy
Those with an undergraduate geoscience degree who have taken a career break or have pursued a career in another field but want to transition back into the field
Those working to address the challenges of energy poverty
Structure, certificates and assessment
You will study this course 100% online.
There is no obligation for you to undertake every activity, but being involved in all aspects of the course will help you to achieve a well-rounded background in preparation for a more advanced study of GeoEnergy.
There is no graded assessment. Instead, you will receive a badge for each completed Unit, and then upon completion of the whole course, you will be awarded with an e-certificate.
An accredited provider of the CPD Standards Office
We are proud to be an accredited provider of the CPD Standards Office for our online short courses and free courses, demonstrating that they conform to CPD best practice and are appropriate for inclusion in a formal CPD record.
Course units
The course is made up of 6 units, each will require approximately 8 hours of study.
Unit 1 - Fundamental Geological Concepts
The first unit introduces you to fundamental geological concepts and how they are applied within the geosciences. You will learn about geological time and the 'laws' of geology and be introduced to how tectonic and other processes generate sedimentary basins.
Unit 2 - Sediments and Sedimentary Rocks
In the second unit you will learn how to accurately describe sediments and sedimentary structures from a range of depositional settings. You will gain an understanding of how sediment components ‘evolve’ over time and how sedimentary structures are formed.
Unit 3 - Interpreting Sedimentary Environments
The third unit explores how we can employ ancient sedimentary rocks to inform us about past depositional environments and how this knowledge can be used to understand the distribution of rocks in the subsurface.
Unit 4 - Sequence Stratigraphic Concepts
The fourth unit introduces and explores the concept of sequence stratigraphy, demonstrating how sea level plays a fundamental role in the nature and distribution of sedimentary rocks.
Unit 5 - Porosity and Permeability
In the fifth unit, focus is on the origin, nature and development of porosity and permeability in the subsurface. This unit also provides an overview of fluid flow in the geological realm.
Unit 6 - The Transition to Net Zero Carbon and the role of GeoEnergy Solutions
The final unit introduces some of the challenges faced by the transition to Net Zero Carbon and investigates available and developing GeoEnergy technologies.
Learning outcomes
On completing this course, you will gain:
an understanding of broad-scale geological processes including tectonic processes
knowledge of how sediments are formed, sedimentary rocks and sedimentary basins
the ability to communicate concepts of porosity and permeability in rocks and how these interact to permit the movement of fluids in the sub-surface
an awareness of the energy challenges of the transition to Net Zero Carbon
the aptitude to explain basic geo-energy solutions including geothermal, hydrogen, CCS and hydrocarbons
Benefits
A flexible course that fits in with working and family life
This learner led course is open for continuous enrolment, which means it can be studied at any time and delivered 100% online, allowing you to manage your personal and professional commitments. This is a self-guided course which involves reflective activities to assess subject understanding. Our online short courses are designed to be intellectually stimulating, thought provoking and rewarding.
Fees and funding
Fee:
£300 (includes VAT)
After doing this course, if you enrol onto the
MSc GeoEnergy
, the £300 will be deducted from the course fee.
Course requirements
The course is widely available for anyone to take part in regardless of age, location or education status.
However, there are some basic requirements. You will need access to the internet whether it is on your PC, tablet, mobile or other electronic devices, as well as a valid email address to register with our online learning environment in order to take part in the course.
You will need to agree to the terms and conditions before you start the course which will be available when you enrol.
Learners should have an understanding of the English Language and the ability to study in English.
How to enrol
All of our short courses are delivered through an easy-to-use online learning platform, which you can enrol from directly.
Empower your workforce with block bookings
Take advantage of a short courses block booking to upskill your employees. Our short courses run on-campus and online and include new legislation and other up-to-the-minute issues. Get in touch today and we will tailor a package to meet the needs of your business.
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Dr Stephen Lokier
Course author
Stephen is a Senior Lecturer in Applied Sedimentology and GeoEnergy and Programme Leader for the MSc GeoEnergy Programme. Stephen teaches across the broad field of sedimentology, stratigraphy and subsurface analysis and characterisation at both the undergraduate and postgraduate level. He undertakes a wide range of field and laboratory activities with collaborators around the globe.
View full staff profile
View full staff profile
Contact us
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Course policies
Learner charter
Cancellation policy
Code of conduct for learner discipline
Terms and conditions
Other courses you might like
GeoEnergy MSc