Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/architecture-architectural-technology-courses/building-info-modelling-project-collab-msc/

Building Information Modelling and Project Collaboration MSc - Architectural Technologies and Interior Architecture - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Architectural Technologies and Interior Architecture
Building Information Modelling and Project Collaboration MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Building Information Modelling (BIM) and Project Collaboration
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2 years
UK fee
£9,000 for the full course or £1,000 per 20 credits*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, January
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
This course is accredited by the
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS),
the
Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT)
and the
Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB)
Study a
CIA
T
accredited course at a university which is one of only four
CIAT
Centres of Excellence in the UK
Choose a course specifically designed for architects, architectural technologists, design managers, project managers, civil/structural engineers, surveyors and other construction professionals with a keen interest in BIM
Learn how to deliver better value through integrated design and project collaboration
Draw on our extensive industrial links and the expertise of our research-active and highly experienced staff
Hone your skills using project collaboration simulation scenarios based on real-world practices
Student feedback - Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
100
%
overall satisfaction
100
%
of our students agreed that staff are good at explaining things
100
%
of our students agreed that the learning materials provided on the course are useful
100
%
of our students agreed that the course is intellectually stimulating
100
%
of our students agreed that staff are enthusiastic about what they teach
100
%
of students agreed that their research skills have developed during the course
Study an Accredited course; a springboard to Chartership
This course is accredited by the
Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologies (CIAT)
,
a dynamic, forward-thinking and inclusive global membership qualifying body for Architectural Technology.
CIAT is a membership organisation representing 10,000 members, including those practising and studying within the discipline and profession, who wish to be professionally recognised.
CIAT Accreditation implies that the programme has been assessed in terms of content, structure, resources and has met the Institute's requirements.
Whilst enrolled on this course, you will benefit from free student membership with CIAT where you'll be able to:
Access their recourses to further enhance your professional development and enrich your studies
Upon graduation, you'll be eligible to apply for Associate Membership (ACIAT) and you will be entitled to exemptions against the educational standards of the MCIAT Professional Assessment when progressing to become a Chartered Architectural Technologist, MCIAT
The course is also accredited by the
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS)
.
RICS is a globally recognised and highly regarded professional body that promotes positive change in the built and natural environments. They advocate and enforce the highest professional standards in the development and management of land, real-estate, construction, and infrastructure around the world.
This prestigious RICS accreditation sets a quality benchmark which ensures that the MSc Building Information Modelling (BIM) and Project Collaboration course is delivered to a high standard, includes content relevant to current industrial practice and is future ready, enabling you to tackle societal challenges and create better places to live.
Become a Chartered Surveyor in 2 years through APC-24
If you are aspiring to become a Chartered Surveyor, then this accredited course will put you on track to achieve MRICS status in just 2 years. Upon completing the course, you will be able to go on to complete the Assessment of Professional Competence (APC-24) which requires 24 months of structured workplace training prior to undertaking the final APC assessment.
The RICS Chartered qualification (MRICS) is a highly valued asset in built environment sector, worldwide. This status can provide many professional benefits including being part of a global professional network, access to jobs around the work, and expanding your skills and knowledge, future career prospects and earning potential.
Build your professional network and strengthen your employability
If you are enrolled onto a RICS accredited course, you can:
Join RICS as a
student member
for free, where you'll be able to:
Access an elite network of 134,000 RICS professional worldwide and join the Surveying professional community via the
RICS LinkedIn Group
Benefit from
RICS Matrics
which supports trainee or newly qualified surveyors to build your professional network, expand your skills set and develop connections with other like-minded professionals
Gain knowledge and view resources to keep you at the forefront of industry including RICS Journals, conferences and seminars, training, international practice standards and professional guidance, CPD resources, independent research and cutting-edge thinking
Add value to your CV with an internationally recognised accredited degree and highly regarded qualification, valued by employers as the benchmark of quality
The academic modules were intellectually stimulating and eye-opening. Lecturers provided us with a wealth of knowledge and always encouraged us to think critically for ourselves. The lectures were adapted to our respective backgrounds, leaving no one behind.
Jerine Sunny
MSc Building Information Modelling and Project Collaboration
At the forefront of innovation
This programme has been introduced at a time when Building Information Modelling (BIM) is increasingly playing a major role in the whole lifecycle of projects. It builds on the vision, showcased by the government in its strategic plan for Level 3 BIM, for greater efficiency and profitability in Digital Built Britain.
You will study the theory and practice of BIM as the emerging industry-standard approach to the design, analysis and management of the building life cycle.
The course incorporates an innovative blend of design management, sustainable design analysis, advanced modelling, customisation and visualisation, all at the cutting edge of technology.
You will also have the opportunity to research novel approaches and technologies for more efficient design integration and project collaboration, so that you can understand the impact of BIM on the design process and workflow requirements.
Our MSc takes an innovative approach to BIM-enabled integrated design, drawing on work-based and real-life projects along with cutting-edge technology. It offers collaborative learning methods as well as flexible modes of delivery.
Get involved in pioneering research
You will be able to draw inspiration from – and take part in – the leading-edge research and consultancy projects being undertaken by our lecturers in the field of BIM-enabled integrated design and construction.
The built environment staff have strong research and practice backgrounds and are actively engaged in applied research and collaboration with the industry. Since most of our research is applied by nature and as such underpins the curriculum, the Master’s students are gaining from regular research seminars, guest lectures and CPD events. This includes research-active lecturers who are incorporating current research thinking and advances into their teaching, projects and independent studies supervision, wherever appropriate. The programme curriculum is aligned to the current needs of professional practice in the construction industry, complemented by the extensive industrial links and current staff expertise and research profile.
The research environment is provided by a multidisciplinary team which focuses on a research profile that in particular underpins teaching and the curriculum in areas of sustainable urban design and architecture, BIM and project collaboration, technical architecture and construction. Current research themes are organised around the following key areas:
Sustainable Architecture
Healthy Buildings
Technology and Materials
BIM and Project Collaboration
Digital Technologies
Education and Pedagogical Research
History and Theories of Architecture methods and site preparation
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
This course is made up of three stages - Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma and MSc.
Postgraduate Certificate
You will study modules such as:
BIM and Integrated Project Collaboration
nD BIM – Costing, Project Planning and Design Management
Environmental Risk and Responsibility (this module will be delivered online for students joining the course in January.)
Postgraduate Diploma
You will study modules such as:
Advanced Parametric Design and Specification
Sustainable Design Analysis and Simulation
You will also choose modules such as:
Project Planning, Value Engineering and Risk Management
Construction Contracts and Dispute Resolution
Sustainable Architecture and Low Energy Design
Negotiated Module
MSc
You will study one module such as:
Independent Scholarship (Built Environment)
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
The programme focuses, at postgraduate level, on the theory and practice of Building Information Modelling (BIM) as the emerging industry-standard approach to the design, procurement and management of a building life cycle.
It uses project collaboration simulation scenarios as close to real-world practices as academically possible.
We adopt a variety of assessment methods, including a combination of coursework and live project collaboration, assignments, exhibitions, graphic and oral presentations. To gain Autodesk Certification, you will need to undertake an exam.
Who will teach you
Dr Boris Ceranic
Programme Leader
Dr Boris Ceranic
Dr Boris Ceranic is a long standing Programme Leader of undergraduate and postgraduate architectural courses and an experienced academic, practitioner and researcher.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You will require:
A minimum of a 2:2 undergraduate degree in architectural, construction or other built environment, or a professional qualification of equal standing, or significant practical or professional experience that would support your application.
If English is not your first language you will need to demonstrate proficiency in English (IELTS 6.0 or equivalent).
If you don't have a relevant degree, applicants from non-traditional backgrounds are welcome and will be accepted subject to successful interview and relevant work experience.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,000 for the full course or £1,000 per 20 credits*
£1,000 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course or £1,055 per 20 credits*
£1,055 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Use of resources, use of workshop and specialist CAD/BIM/VR facilities
Free student membership of accredited bodies
Organised site visits and fieldtrips
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Ecobuild Trip contribution - £10 per person
Optional costs not included in your fees
Course books - approx. £15 per book depending on source
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
Graduates from this course can look forward to a wide range of BIM-related career opportunities in consultancy and design management as well as architectural practices.  They could also take on many different types of roles with central and local government, property developers, building contractors, housing associations, retail enterprises and manufacturing companies.
You could also consider further study and research towards a PhD qualification and/or an academic career.
Career opportunities open to graduates include:
Senior Structural Engineer
BIM Coordinator
Junior BIM Manager
BIM Implementation Manager
Employers our graduates have gone on to work for include:
amey
Ridge
Corstorphine and Wright
source8
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Sustainable Architecture and Healthy Buildings MSc