Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/business-courses/business-management-ba-hons-top-up/

Business Management (Top-Up) BA (Hons) - Business - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Business
Business Management (Top-Up) BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Business Management (Top-Up)
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 per year
(2024/25)
UCAS code
N200
Start dates
September, January
Location
Derby Campus
The highlights
This top-up degree builds on and embellishes the knowledge you’ve already gained to give you a full honours degree in BA (Hons) Business Management. You can join at stage 2 or 3.
From the get-go, you'll be thinking about how to apply what you're learning, through topical case studies, business simulations and real consultancy projects.
Covering global and strategic management issues, you’ll study the specialist areas of management and leadership and marketing.
You can also select optional modules that cover areas to suit your own interests and career aims.*
You'll benefit from the inside perspectives of guest speakers from industry and professional bodies.
*
Optional module choices may be limited for those taking the part-time route.
Top
25
for graduate prospects (on track) - Business and Management Studies subject area
Complete University Guide 2025
New Derby Business School in the city centre
We're building a new Derby Business School, serving as an international centre of excellence. The superb new teaching facilities will build on our established reputation for inspirational teaching and research excellence, as we shape the next generation of qualified business leaders.
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Let's do business
Join this challenging and varied business management degree at either stage 2 or 3 to learn about organisations, their management and the global environments in which they operate. You’ll learn new ways of thinking as well as a host of practical skills, and be challenged to apply these to real-world business and management scenarios.
We’ll help you prepare for a career in a global business environment that is rapidly changing, by supporting you to become more agile, innovative and resilient. You will also develop self-learning and team-working skills, which are crucial to success in the professional sphere.
Importantly, you will also learn to see things differently, by working with students from many other countries — both in your classes and online through joint projects with our overseas partner universities. You will see how people from different cultures tackle the same business issue and discover that who we are and where we are affects how we do business.
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Our teaching methods will be varied, interactive and engaging. You will take part in:
formal lectures, sometimes involving guest speakers
tutor-led and student-led seminars
one-to-one and small group tutorials
self-directed study
We have a diverse range of guest speakers to inspire our students and share their stories. Recently we had Nobel Laureate Professor Muhammad Yunus, who delivered a session on ‘The concept of microcredit’ as part of our 2021 Student Lecture Series.
Business Consultancy Project
During stage 3, you will undertake one of the most important parts of the course: the Business Consultancy Project. After learning the project management and research skills that are essential to any business professional, you will then apply these to solve a real problem for a business.
This is a fantastic opportunity to put to use all your newly-acquired knowledge and skills and prove what you can do. Not only will you gain valuable experience, but you will also become much more confident in your abilities.
How you are assessed
We mostly assess you through practical coursework assignments — the sort of tasks you might undertake in the workplace. Sometimes these will be individual tasks and at other times, you will need to work in a group. Assignments could include:
business reports
research and consultancy projects
presentations
design of digital materials such as videos, blogs or augmented reality posters
computer-based assessments.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Anne Wylie
Programme Leader
Anne Wylie
As a Senior Lecturer in Business Management and Programme Leader for the BA (Hons) Business Management, Anne teaches on a number of undergraduate modules and helps to drive the continuous development of the programme and the developmen...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You need to have an HND or Foundation degree in a relevant subject.
You need at least five GCSEs (or equivalent) including Maths and English at grade 4/C or above.
When you apply, please send us a transcript of the modules you have already studied so that we can make sure that the HND or foundation degree is compatible with the top-up programme.
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2024/25
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
£1,155 per 20 credit module
International
£14,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Full-time students applying in September should apply for this course through UCAS and
state on your application you would like to enrol at stage 3
, or you can apply directly to the University for an undergraduate course if you’re not applying to any other UK university in the same year.
Apply through UCAS
Part-time students should Apply directly to the University..
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Additional information
Please state on your UCAS application you would like to enrol at stage 3.
You can also apply directly to the University for an undergraduate course if you’re not applying to any other UK university in the same year.
If you wish to join at Stage 2, please email
onlineapplication@derby.ac.uk
. Please note, the modules listed may differ if you are joining at Stage 2 or Stage 3.
Careers
By the end of the course you will have sound business acumen and a wide range of practical skills. This astute business focus and depth of insight offered by this course means you emerge prepared for a career in a variety of areas, such as operations manager, business analyst, business development manager, HR officer and many, many more.
Because this is such a broad degree, lots of different job roles will be open to you, in areas such as project management, analysis, consultancy, accountancy, operations, human resource management, marketing, sales, logistics and finance. Previous students have gone on to work for prominent employers — including Deloitte, PwC, Capita, the BBC, DHL, Barclays, Tata, Mott MacDonald and IBM — while others have set up their own businesses.
On completion, you could go straight to a Masters degree, which is just one more year of full-time study, and you’ll be eligible for an alumni fee discount as a Derby graduate.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Other courses you might like
International Business (Top-Up) BA (Hons)
International Business and Finance (Top-Up) BA (Hons)
Banking and Finance (Top-Up) BA (Hons)