Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/accounting-courses/business-accounting-and-finance-ba-hons/

Business Accounting and Finance BA (Hons) - Accounting - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Accounting
Business Accounting and Finance BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Business Accounting and Finance
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
N473
Start date
September
Location
Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
Access our
Financial Markets Lab
and gain hands-on experience using the same information and technology relied on by financial professionals all over the world
Join a dynamic new generation of business and finance all-rounders, equipped for a wide range of business accounting and finance careers
Combine skills in accounting and finance with knowledge of leadership, strategy and governance
Build your problem-solving skills with projects for real organisations
Work with experts who are shaping contemporary business and finance thinking
After successful completion of this course, you’ll be eligible to apply for all 11 of the maximum exemptions offered by the
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants
(CIMA)
A high-performing business professional has to meet high expectations. Our new BA (Hons) Business Accounting and Finance gives you the versatility, flexibility and broad knowledge base to meet those expectations.
You’ll mix a strong grounding in financial and management accounting with business strategy and the capacity to lead an organisation. It’s a powerful combination marking you out for rapid advancement in any branch of contemporary business - anywhere in the world.
Top
20
For assessment and feedback - Accounting subject area
National Student Survey 2024
Top
20
for teaching quality - Accounting and Finance subject area
Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Top
15
for satisfaction with feedback received from teaching staff - Accounting and Finance
Guardian University Guide 2025
A professional perspective
You’ll be working towards professional accountancy qualifications with industry bodies like the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), one of the world’s largest accounting bodies, and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), as part of your BA (Hons) Business Accounting and Finance course.
After successful completion of this course, you’ll be eligible to apply for all
11 of the maximum exemptions
offered by the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA). You will also gain many other exemptions from professional bodies ACCA and ICAEW.
During your undergraduate studies, you can register with CIMA, giving you access to a range of benefits whilst on your degree. This added support combined with your CIMA syllabus exemptions will all help fast track your career once you graduate.
You’ll also gain hands-on experience with the latest professional data and information services, including Bloomberg and specialist accounting software.
Accounting – your questions answered
In the below video, Senior Lecturer, Darren Byrne, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Accounting at the University of Derby.
New Derby Business School in the city centre
We're building a new Derby Business School, serving as an international centre of excellence. The superb new teaching facilities will build on our established reputation for inspirational teaching and research excellence, as we shape the next generation of qualified business leaders.
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Keeping it real
We’ll ensure you can adapt and achieve in the face of business change. You’ll practise your skills by solving real problems for real organisations. You’ll undertake consultancy projects for local employers so you grasp exactly what business life involves. There’s every opportunity for you to build your skills, networks and professional profile.
Understanding the challenges
A recent example included a visit by our final year Business, Accounting and Finance Students to Bolsover District Council to learn about the association and importance of their work. Students spent the day exploring the departments forming the government-based organisation and the stakeholder challenges faced whilst decision-making.  The trip provided insight on the leadership style and organisations environment, duties and challenges; it was a great opportunity for the students to experience the work that Bolsover District Council do for the community.
Following the trip, students explained how interesting it was to explore the government sector and other public services in detail. One student stated that the trip has inspired them to work in the public sector to help the community.
Forward thinking
Professionally qualified and industry experienced, our teaching team will keep you up-to-date with the latest developments shaping the modern business world.
They’re passionate about their subjects and influential in their research. You’ll learn from academics who are leading the way in fields like strategic management accounting, financial control, small business management and accounting ethics.
Hands-on learning
Fieldtrips will help you to translate theory into practice. We have visited companies such as PKF Cooper Parry as well as a council finance department. A recent fieldtrip to Chatsworth House featured an informative talk by the Chief Executive of the Devonshire Trust and the Head of Visitor Experience for the Chatsworth Group. Such opportunities deepen your understanding of the wider business world and underpin your live coursework projects.
View Accounting fieldtrip video video transcript
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You'll have the opportunity to complete a professional consultancy project with a real employer within their third year, having gained the skills to do this in their second year. The skills mastered within these business accounting and finance modules help prove your capabilities to employers and have been used by students to demonstrate their competences even at interviews for roles.
How you're assessed
There are a range of assessment methods used throughout the BA (Hons) Business Accounting and Finance degree. In the first stage, we use a variety of computer-based assessments to help you gauge your own level of learning. These assessments give you feedback on how you do so that it helps your learning in a constructive way. In other modules, there are essays and reports to submit. At the second and third stages, you will be assessed mainly by examinations, but also by essays, business reports, projects and presentations.
How you’re supported
We’re proud of our personal touch which means that each year has a year leader and all students have a personal tutor whose aim is to ensure that by the end of the programme, each student has achieved what they need to achieve to take their next step whether that be into employment or further study.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Darren Byrne
Programme Leader
Darren Byrne
Darren Byrne is Programme Leader for the BA (Hons) Business Accounting and Finance at the University of Derby. Darren teaches on a number of modules that help students to produce Consultancy Reports for real organisations who are looki...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma: 60 credits with 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Opportunities to enter ICAEW Business Challenge
Opportunity of part funded trips, optional with limited places available
Visit to organisation - linked to live brief
Optional costs not included in your fees
One-off joining fee for Professional Accounting Body subject to the professional body offer
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Undergraduate
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
This business accounting and finance degree is the ideal foundation whether you’re seeking a senior position in industry and commerce, applying for a coveted graduate training programme or setting your sights on postgraduate studies.
Your employability is central to everything we do. Throughout, you’ll work with a personal tutor on maximising your professional development and career prospects.
By the end of your studies, you’ll be well on your way to full professional accountancy qualifications. But you’ll be able to offer an employer much more in terms of leadership, strategy and problem-solving skills.
Typical roles graduates will be aiming at are: accountant, compliance manager, credit controller, finance analyst, finance manager, management accountant.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Accounting and Finance BA (Hons)
Business Management BA (Hons)
Business Accounting and Finance BA (Hons) with Placement Year
Accounting and Finance BA (Hons) with Placement Year