Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/teacher-training-courses/certificate-in-education-post-14-further-education-and-skills/

Certificate in Education Post 14 Further Education and Skills  - Teacher Training - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Teacher Training
Certificate in Education Post 14 Further Education and Skills
Book your visit
Book your visit
Undergraduate Course
Certificate in Education Post 14 Further Education and Skills
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Part-time: 2 years
Start date
September
Location
Buxton & Leek College (Leek Campus)
Our course is designed for anyone who is teaching post-14 learners, paid or voluntary, in a further education (FE) setting, training establishment, special school, academy, prison or young offender institution. Teaching will build on your experiences, enabling you to put new ideas into practice. The course is also suitable for learners who are trainers as part of their role as current teaching assistants.
You will study at Leek campus, a site which is both steeped in history while offering state-of-the-art facilities, having recently undergone a £7m redevelopment.
What you will study
This course offers a strong foundation for the professional development of teachers through practical teaching opportunities, underpinned with theoretical study and discourse.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You will learn through a mixture of coursework, observations of teaching practice, self-evaluation, reflective tasks, written assignments, presentations and some group tasks. Throughout the course, you will also deliver at least 50 hours of teaching.
You’re required to undertake research and write in an appropriate academic style using Harvard Referencing systems. All assessments require you to apply theory to your own practice and you will engage with learning theory.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Careers
After you have completed this course, this 120 credit Level 5/6 qualification enables you to achieve a full qualification to teach in the FE and skills sector (Post 14).
If you achieve a Level 5 Certificate of Education and wish to progress to graduate status, you may be able to top up to a BA (Hons) Education.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Learn more about
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion at the University of Derby