Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/chartered-manager-degree-apprenticeship-top-up/

Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship (Top-Up) - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship (Top-Up)
Apply now
Apply now
Apprenticeship Course
Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship (Top-Up)
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Benefits
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Duration
Year 5- 3 years with 3 months for EPA
Year 6- 2 years with 3 months for EPA
Delivery
Blended learning
Lecture/workshop days - dates/times
Face-to-face sessions will be delivered in blocks and we can be flexible, arranging them to fit around the workplace.
Course description
Unique to Derby, this is a fast-track to the Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship for more experienced managers with strategic responsibilities. You will still gain the BA (Hons) in Business Management and Leadership as well as Chartered Manager status (CMgr), but bypass the modules at levels 4 and 5.
This apprenticeship is designed to promote your practical capability and competence within the management field. The programme can also be tailored to specific industry sectors, if the demand is there. However, 80% of the content is on-the-job elements and work-related learning tasks, so it is already linked to your role.
The apprenticeship will focus on your personal and professional development, looking at key approaches to learning, behaviour and reflection alongside critical issues such as professional ethics, decision-making and sustainability.
As a member of UN PRME (Principles for Responsible Management Education), we are keen to help you become a future generator of sustainable value for business and society at large, as we all work towards an inclusive and sustainable global economy.
Who is this course for?
Experienced managers with strategic responsibilities, who want to update their skills, gain a degree and gain Chartered Manager status.
Structure, certificates and assessment
This apprenticeship runs over a minimum of two years. You will be completing on-the-job learning and uploading evidence of this to an e-portfolio, at the same time as studying for a BA (Hons) degree in Business Leadership and Management.
This academic study will be through 'blended learning' - a combination of face-to-face and online teaching. Face-to-face sessions are delivered in blocks and online learning can include group webinars, independent activities or reading for half a day per week between the block study sessions.
You will usually take these modules:
Innovative Operations Management
Strategic Leadership
Emerging Digital Trends and Issues
Business Impact Project
Professional Review.
Each module has a specific learning journey on the CMI Management Direct portal to complement existing materials.
Assessments
You will be assessed on projects you complete for your employer, which must have real impact - for you and for your workplace. Your employer will help us design these assessments.
The final End Point Assessment is run by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and includes a review of your e-portfolio and an interview. If successful, you will gain Chartered Manager Status (CMgr) in addition to the BA (Hons) degree.
Your employer will be able to track your progress through an online portal.
Request more information about our apprenticeship programmes
Want to talk to a member of the team about our apprenticeship programmes? Make an enquiry and a member of our team will get in contact with to provide you with more information about our apprenticeships, and how our programmes can up-skill your workforce.
Request more information about apprenticeships
Request more information about apprenticeships
Benefits
Benefits to employers
Your apprentices will:
Gain contemporary subject knowledge in business management and leadership
Be able to contribute to the business at a strategic level before they graduate, thanks to work-related tasks and projects
Develop critical skills that all employers demand, such as
information literacy and digital literacy skills: the ability to produce work ready solutions to complex problems
learning, team working and innovation skills: creativity, critical thinking, communication, collaboration
cross-cultural awareness and global citizenship
life and career skills and universal professional skills, such as self-direction and adaptability to change
approaches to responsible management, professional ethics and decision-making.
Once they have completed the End Point Assessment, apprentices can also apply for Chartered Manager Status (CMgr).
This apprenticeship incorporates a range of industry-standard diagnostics, such as psychometric testing and 360 feedback.
You will be able to track the progress of your apprentices through an online portal.
Entry requirements
Employment requirements
You must currently be in paid employment of at least 30 hours per week and your employer must cover the costs of the apprenticeship.
Academic requirements
Employers usually set their own selection criteria and entry requirements and we can work with them on this. However, typically an apprentice might be expected to have appropriate level 3 qualifications, such as A-levels at grades A to C or equivalent, as well as Maths, English and ICT at Level 2 (eg GCSE).
In addition, because it's a Top-Up, we will need to check you have the right level of knowledge, skills and behaviours. We will assess that during an informal interview and by asking you to complete a 'skills scan' with your employer.
Fees and funding
The employer will pay for the fees.
More information for employers
The cost of this apprenticeship will be based on the outcome of the skills scan, since this will indicate how many modules the apprentice will need to take.
If you pay into the Apprenticeship Levy, this funding will be used. If you don't, generous government subsidies are available - talk to us to find out more.
How to apply
You will need to apply through your employer. However, you can find out more from us - please see below for contact information.
Contact us
Apprenticeship Hub
Email:
apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk
Phone:
01332 593092
Other courses you might like
Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship