Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/chartered-manager-degree-apprenticeship/

Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship
Apply now
Apply now
Apprenticeship Course
Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Benefits
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Duration
Minimum of 4 years
Lecture/workshop days - dates/times
We are flexible in terms of study patterns to fit around the workplace or seasonal demand.
Course description
To progress a career in management, with emphasis on a sustainable global economy, look no further than a Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship at the University of Derby.
Studying for a Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship at the University of Derby provides access to Gold-rated teaching, exceptional facilities and a practical course designed to promote capability and competence within the management field.
The apprenticeship focuses on personal and professional development, embedding key approaches to learning, behaviour and reflection alongside critical issues such as professional ethics, decision-making and sustainability. This course can also be tailored to specific industry sectors by demand.
We aim to develop the capability of our apprentices to be the future generators of sustainable value for business and society at large, working towards an inclusive and sustainable global economy.
This is reinforced by our membership of UN PRME (Principles for Responsible Management Education).
Apprentices will benefit from on-the-job practical training and degree level academic learning, including a significant blended element.
An online portal enables employers to track apprentice progress, including assessment and monitoring data.
Who is this course for?
Our apprenticeship programme is suitable for individuals that are currently working towards or aspire towards working in a management role.
Apprentice Kully's journey to a promotion and Chartered Manager Status
When Kully's employer, Derby City Council, offered her the chance to gain a fully funded apprenticeship, she grabbed the opportunity with both hands.
Find out more about Kully's apprenticeship journey
Find out more about Kully's apprenticeship journey
Structure, certificates and assessment
The apprenticeship runs over a minimum of four years and is supported by blended learning, with face to face delivered in blocks, supported by online teaching, synchronous webinars, asynchronous activities or reading for half a day per week between the block study sessions.
Each module has a specific learning journey on the CMI Management Direct portal to complement existing materials.
The assessment for the apprenticeship is flexible and it allows learners to produce authentic employer focused projects that have individual and workplace impact.
A degree will form part of the study for the Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship.
Request more information about our apprenticeship programmes
Want to talk to a member of the team about our apprenticeship programmes? Make an enquiry and a member of our team will get in contact with to provide you with more information about our apprenticeships, and how our programmes can up-skill your workforce.
Request more information about apprenticeships
Request more information about apprenticeships
Benefits
Benefits to Employers
Offers an apprenticeship which has been specifically designed to meet the requirements of the Degree Apprenticeship in Business and Leadership
In addition to providing contemporary subject knowledge in Business Management and Leadership, the apprenticeship develops the critical skills demanded by employers:
Your apprentices will undertake degree level and on-the-job practical training enabling them to contribute to the business at a strategic level before they graduate
Information literacy and digital literacy skills - the ability to produce work ready solutions to complex problems
Learning, team working and innovation skills - creativity, critical thinking, communication, collaboration
Consciousness of multiple worldviews, cross cultural awareness, global citizenship
Life, career and inter-disciplinary professional skills, self-direction and adaptability to change
The apprenticeship emphasises approaches to responsible management, professional ethics and the decision making
Upon completion of the End Point Assessment, apprentices also gain a Chartered Management Institute (CMI) Level 5 Diploma in Management and Leadership, and Chartered Manager Status (CMgr)
The apprenticeship incorporates a range of industry standard diagnostics, psychometric testing and 360 feedback
Entry requirements
Academic qualifications of at least 96 UCAS points or above at A-level or equivalent.
We welcome and encourage applications from people of all ages as long as they can be considered adequately prepared to succeed on the programme. If apprentices have few or no formal qualifications, they may be able to gain entry to the programme if they have the required communication and learning skills as well as the knowledge, experience and motivation to succeed. All apprentices will be asked to provide evidence of academic potential and commitment to confirm their ability to undertake the programme.
Individual employers will also set their own selection criteria and typical entry requirements and we will work with them concerning entry. Direct entry at Level 5 will depend on achieving recognition of prior learning equivalent to Level 4 of the degree.
To apply for this apprenticeship you must currently be in paid employment of at least 30 hours per week. Your employer must cover the costs of the apprenticeship.
Fees and funding
Employers:
Cost of the apprenticeship will normally be in line with the funding band £22,000, but individual agreements will be considered depending on student numbers and involvement of employers.
Apprentices:
Fees will be paid by your employer with government funded support or through the apprenticeship levy.
How to apply
Applications to this apprenticeship will need to be made through the employer.
However, you can find out more from us - please see below for contact information.
Contact us
Apprenticeship Hub
Email:
apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk
Phone:
01332 593092