Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/education-childhood-inclusion-courses/children-and-young-people-fda/

Children and Young People FdA - Education, Childhood and SEND - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Education, Childhood and SEND
Children and Young People FdA
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Children and Young People
FdA
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
How you will learn
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 2 years,  Part-time: 3 years
Start date
September
Location
Buxton & Leek College (Buxton/Leek Campus)
Study a course that’s been developed with employers in the sector, so you know it’s relevant and up-to-date
Choose a specialist pathway relevant to your interests: Early Years, Early Years with Practitioner Status, Teaching Assistant, or Special Educational Needs
Gain hands-on industry experience by volunteering/working two days a week in the sector.
You can study this course at
Buxton & Leek College
as part of the University of Derby, or at one of our partner colleges:
Boston College
Loughborough College
Developed with employers
This professional qualification is valued by employers. We’ll help you to become a more confident, knowledgeable and effective practitioner working with children, young people and their families. The course enables those already working, or wanting to work with children and young people aged 0–25, to further develop their knowledge, skills and understanding. You can choose a specialist pathway* relevant to your interests: Early Years, Early Years with Practitioner Status, Teaching Assistant, or Special Educational Needs. You’ll need to be working or volunteering in the sector two days per week and have
48 UCAS points from A level or equivalent qualifications
.
*Dependent on chosen site of study.
What you will study
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You'll study through a mixture of theory and practical work, and reflect on your practice.
How you're assessed
There are no exams.
Fees and funding
2024/25
For fee information, please contact the partner college you wish to study at.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
To study at Buxton & Leek College, apply directly to the University of Derby.
Apply directly to the University
Please apply to the individual College if you wish to study at:
Boston College
Loughborough College
Careers
Demand is growing for qualified practitioners working in children’s and young people’s services. You’ll have the knowledge, understanding, and professional skills to progress in your practice and make an impact on service provision. Previous graduates were promoted to senior roles and others now lead practices.
You can top up to a degree by completing the final stage of a relevant bachelors degree, such as:
BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies
BA (Hons) Education Studies
BA (Hons) Special Educational Needs and Disability
In recent years, many of our graduates have continued on to a teacher training course and are now teaching.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Other courses you might like
Early Childhood Studies with Foundation Year BA (Hons)