Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/children-young-people-and-families-practitioner-/

Children, Young People and Families Practitioner  - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Children, Young People and Families Practitioner
Apply now
Apply now
Apprenticeship Course
Children, Young People and Families Practitioner Apprenticeship
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Benefits
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Course level
Level 4
Duration
2 years
Delivery
Face to face
Lecture/workshop days - dates/times
Study patterns to fit around the workplace.
Course description
This level 4 apprenticeship is equivalent to the first year of a bachelors degree. You need to be working with children, young people and families in a community setting e.g. in family homes, schools, nurseries, youth centres, or youth justice.
Through the apprenticeship, you will become skilled in recognising and assessing the complex needs that children, young people and families often present. You will be able to make specific interventions or referrals and agree these with the child, young person or family. You will learn to approach your work with respectful curiosity, challenging and supporting children, young people and families to achieve their potential and stay safe.
You will learn to work alongside other professionals and organisations to share the responsibility for improving outcomes. Each piece of work with a child or family will be different and you will need to use your judgement, deciding which evidence-based approach is best each time.
You will regularly evaluate the effectiveness of your methods and actions and will have frequent supervisions with an experienced practitioner to help you do this. At the end of the apprenticeship, the high quality of your practice will be making a real difference to those that you work with.
What do current students think about the programme
What I have learnt has been incredibly useful and I've been able to apply it within my current role and my practise. Following completion of my apprenticeship, I will be going onto a level five degree in Education Studies at the University of Derby.
Isobel Mcelhone
Lay Chaplin and Apprenticeship Student
I decided to complete an apprenticeship as it allows me to work alongside my studies. It has allowed me to continue to develop my practise and to understand why we do what we do.
Charles Archer
Lay Chaplin and Apprenticeship Student
Hear from the programme leader
Meet Helen, she's the programme leader for the level 4 Children, Young People and Families Practitioner Apprenticeship. Hear more about this practise based apprenticeship programme and the benefit it has to employers.
Structure, certificates and assessment
80% of your learning will be through 'on-the-job' training at your place of work. 20% of your learning will come through training sessions or independent learning led by the University of Derby.
Face-to-face sessions:
You will have two full days of face-to-face session each month. It's likely that this will be on a Tuesday. These will normally be held at the Kedleston Road site in Derby but may sometimes be at different employer premises, so you can explore different work-based contexts. You will work on one module in the morning (three hours with a break) and another module in the afternoon (three hours with a break).
Directed tasks and independent tasks:
You will spend the equivalent of two full days a month on these, which could include working on your portfolio, reflecting on your work, observations, evaluating your work-based interventions and actions.
Work-based Continuing Professional Development (CPD)
:
Your employer will need you to undertake regular CPD on areas such as safeguarding, PREVENT / ACT, or work-based processes.
The
Apprenticeship Standards
are embedded in each module and assessments have been designed to provide evidence of you meeting the required standards.
You will have access to physical learning resources (the library) at the University and electronic resources via the University’s virtual learning environment.
Children, Young People and Families Practitioner Webinar
This webinar is an opportunity for you to find out about the Children, Young People and Families Practitioner Apprenticeship Level 4 that happened during National Apprenticeship Week 2021.
Watch the webinar recording here
Watch the webinar recording here
Request more information about our apprenticeship programmes
Want to talk to a member of the team about our apprenticeship programmes? Make an enquiry and a member of our team will get in contact with to provide you with more information about our apprenticeships, and how our programmes can up-skill your workforce.
Request more information about apprenticeships
Request more information about apprenticeships
Benefits
This apprenticeship offers you the chance to train while working and earning a wage. It gives you a range of professional and academic opportunities to develop as an outstanding practitioner for children, young people and families. It will help you become an effective, autonomous and reflective practitioner who can achieve the best possible outcomes for the children and young people you work with.
Entry requirements
Employment requirements
You must currently be in paid employment of at least 30 hours per week. Your employer will also require you to undertake a DBS check (Disclosure and Barring Service) to prove you are suitable to work with children.
Academic requirements
Apprentices without level 2 English and Maths will need to achieve this level prior to taking their end point assessment
Fees and funding
Employers
The cost of this apprenticeship will normally be in line with the funding band £6,000, but we will consider individual agreements, depending on student numbers and your involvement.
If you pay into the Apprenticeship Levy, this funding will be used. If you are an SME, generous government subsidies are available.
Apprentices
The fees will be paid by your employer.
How to apply
You will need to apply for this apprenticeship through your employer.
However, you can find out more from us - please see below for contact information.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Apprenticeship Hub
Email:
apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk
Phone:
01332 593092