Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/child-and-adolescent-mental-health/

Child and Adolescent Mental Health  - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Child and Adolescent Mental Health
Apply now
Apply now
Professional Course
Child and Adolescent Mental Health
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
How to apply
Module details
Module code
6NU500/7NU500
Module level
Level 6 and 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
January
Duration
12 weeks
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Module description
Professionals working with children and adolescents need to be able to identify disorders and psychological problems that may influence the professional’s assessment and communication with the young person and family.
This module aims to explore some of the disorders and problems that you may encounter. Having a broad understanding of these issues will enable you to appreciate and understand how these difficulties may affect your relationship with the young person and the family.
The module will also examine the importance of effective communication with the wider allied agency teams.
Who this course is for
This course is aimed at all health and social care professionals working within a child and adolescent arena.
Course team
Erica Lloyd
: areas of interest include assessment of child and adolescent wellbeing and evaluation of interventions
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Evaluate and demonstrate conceptual understanding of the issues arising from the assessment of a child or young person, who has, or may have, a mental health problem.
Critically discuss and evaluate the referral pathways utilised within CAMHS, demonstrating an exploration of multi-agency working, incorporating the family within the referral process.
Entry requirements
You’ll need to be a practitioner working within a child and adolescent arena.
How to apply
Level 6
LBR applications
If you are applying for an LBR funded place, please Apply directly to the University.
Find out more about LBR and whether you are eligible for an LBR Level 6 course
Apply directly to the University
Self-funded applications
If you are financing your study yourself, please contact Admissions on
01332 591167
or email
askadmissions@derby.ac.uk
to secure your place
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.