Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/child-development/

Child Development  - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Child Development
Apply now
Apply now
Professional Course
Child Development
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
How to apply
Module details
Module code
6NU501/7NU501
Module level
Level 6 and 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
September and January
Duration
12 weeks
Location
Derby Campus
Module description
This module has been designed to develop your knowledge of child development across the age span while highlighting the vulnerability of this age group.
It will encourage an exploration of child developmental theories, including the concepts of attachment and resilience. Assessment tools and models of care will be identified and constructively critiqued. Within the present climate of supporting children to meet their full potential there will be supported debate and discussion around proactive practice and safeguarding issues that are pertinent within the multi-agency practice environment.
The teaching includes lectures, group work, activities and case studies and is enhanced through student engagement.
Who this course is for
This course is aimed at health care professionals such as Health Visitors, School Nurses, Paediatric Nurses, Radiographers, Social Workers, Occupational Therapists.
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Demonstrate critical awareness and understanding of child development and how this relates to the life stages and chances of children and adolescents within the community.
Critically appraise and evaluate the impact of legislation together with national and local policy and conclude the implications for practice within the arena of multi-agency service delivery.
Entry requirements
You’ll need to be a registered health care professional.
How to apply
Level 6
LBR applications
If you are applying for an LBR funded place, please Apply directly to the University.
Find out more about LBR and whether you are eligible for an LBR Level 6 course
Apply directly to the University
Self-funded applications
If you are financing your study yourself, please contact Admissions on
01332 591167
or email
askadmissions@derby.ac.uk
to secure your place
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.