Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/public-health-social-care-courses/child-family-health-wellbeing-bsc-hons/

Child and Family Health and Wellbeing BSc (Hons)  - Public Health and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Public Health and Social Care
Child and Family Health and Wellbeing BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Child and Family Health and Wellbeing
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
104
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
L511
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
Top
25
for student satisfaction
Social Work subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
Top
5
for satisfaction with teaching in Social Work
Guardian University Guide 2024
96
%
Overall Academic Support
BSc (Hons) Child and Family Health and Wellbeing - National Student Survey
Are you passionate about supporting children and families? Would you like a career where you can tackle issues such as health inequalities and poverty? This exciting course offers you the ideal preparation.
Prepare for a fulfilling career in roles such as family support worker or community health worker
Gain invaluable skills and knowledge to support children and families to make their lives better
Build your experience through highly practical projects and a work placement
Conduct meaningful research into some of the most pressing issues facing children, families and society today
Engage with our enthusiastic and highly experienced teaching team who are dedicated to your success
Undertake assessments which reflect what happens in the workplace: there are no exams on this course
Build a strong platform for further postgraduate study if you wish to specialise in a profession like nursing, social work or teaching.
Our BSc (Hons) Child and Family Health and Wellbeing is your stepping stone to a role where you can make a positive difference every working day. You’ll be part of a new generation of dedicated, creative and highly capable professionals supporting children, families and their wider communities.
We’re proud to welcome applications from candidates with practice experience in youth work, health, social care and education. This is as part of our commitment to enable those from non-traditional backgrounds to be able to study as part of our commitment to widening participation.
A vital role in society
This course is ideal for anyone interested in helping families and children to reach their potential. We will equip you with the skills, understanding and values you need to work in a broad range of settings delivering health, social and developmental work.
You will learn how to provide high-quality support services which are critical to sustaining family life, sometimes in the face of problems such as poverty, illness, domestic violence and mental health issues. We help you to support vulnerable families with respect and compassion, promoting strong parenting skills and healthier lifestyles.
Throughout, you will take a holistic view of children’s and young people’s needs – emotionally, socially, educationally and from health perspectives. You will also consider those needs in the context of the wider community.
Ensuring you are work-ready
Ours is a highly vocational degree where you will be treated as a professional worker in training. We help you meet demanding standards so that you can hit the ground running from day one in your career.
The focus is on applying your skills to practical scenarios. You will find yourself writing up home visit reports, devising family learning resources such as games, and harnessing music, dance or drama to help children express themselves creatively.
With family support workers frequently on the frontline of tackling crucial public health concerns, you will also work on practical projects covering everything from healthy eating and exercise to children’s dental health.
How Shannon found her calling at University
Shannon found studying at the University of Derby to be life-changing and has set up a great foundation to progress her career.
Read Shannon's story here
Read Shannon's story here
Advanced knowledge, practical research
Because it leads to a BSc qualification, this degree sets you apart from graduates of other Child and Family Health courses. We place a strong emphasis on scientific knowledge in areas such as health psychology to enhance your professional credibility.
Another distinctive feature is a focus on primary research. In your second year, you build your practical skills in research methods. You then go on to complete a major research study in your final year, covering a theme of your choice and centred on actual workplace practice.
Your experience of research, data collection and analysis will help raise your profile as a critical, independent thinker. It will give you the confidence and capacity to lead change in the workplace, based on strong evidence.
Gain practical experience on placement
In your final year, you undertake a placement working in health and wellbeing settings. It could be with a family support team, social work team, children’s centre, hospital, school or voluntary organisation.
Because strong inter-personal and communication skills are essential to your career success, you will gain meaningful experience of building positive relationships with children, families and other practitioners.
In earlier stages of the course you are also encouraged and supported to undertake voluntary work in relevant settings to prepare for your placement.
Placement hours are subject to change.
Strong professional partnerships to inspire you
This course has been designed in partnership with employers across the health and social care sector. We liaise closely with professionals ranging from children’s centre managers to health promotion workers to ensure that your learning is up to date, relevant and purposeful.
You will hear from a wide variety of specialist guest speakers. Some focus on specific themes like domestic violence, safeguarding or the Prevent agenda. Others share insights from their own experiences in roles such as health visitor, family support worker or social worker.
Working together to learn from each other
Successful professionals who work with children and families have to be adaptable, versatile and resilient, prepared to work with other professionals in multi-agency teams. You will therefore have opportunities to learn with, and from, students from other disciplines through our College of Health and Social Care's Inter-Professional Learning agenda. This is very important in preparing you to work alongside other practitioners after graduation.
Outstanding learning facilities
You can take this course at our
Derby Campus
offer outstanding
learning environments
including clinical skills suites built to professional standards, with replica wards, counselling rooms and treatment rooms fully equipped with the latest clinical resources.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Exciting and highly interactive, this course places great emphasis on applied learning. You will build on the theory you learn through traditional lectures, tutorials, seminars and workshops by taking part in activity-based group work, delivering presentations and undertaking independent research in the wider community.
We pride ourselves on offering a supportive, friendly and welcoming learning environment where you can fulfil your ambitions.
How you're assessed
There are no exams and all your assessments will centre on work-related themes and professional practice so you are well prepared for the challenges you will encounter in your career.
Assessments take a variety of innovative forms including reflective diaries, practical work undertaken in our professional skills suite, presentations, reports, a portfolio of the work you complete on placement, and observations of your practice. We offer a wide range of support to help you with the assessments at all stages of the degree.
Who you will meet
You will be inspired and motivated by our dedicated teaching team who boast extensive experience of working with children and families in a broad spectrum of roles.
We also draw on the expertise of research-active staff across our College of Health and Social Care, so you will benefit from insights into nursing, social work, counselling, psychotherapy, health promotion and creative expressive therapies.
The core teaching team includes:
Programme Leader,
Cleveland Thompson
Assistant Programme Leader,
Vanessa Patrick-Wood
Senior Lecturer,
Claire Ambrose
Lecturer, Mark Ball
Lecturer, Ali Ali
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Cleveland  Thompson
Programme Leader
Cleveland  Thompson
Cleveland is a Senior Lecturer and the Program Lead for the BSc (Hons) in Child and Family, Health and Wellbeing, which sits within the discipline area of Social and Community Studies, and the College of Health, Psychology and Social C...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
104
A Level
BCC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
Additional entry requirements
An
Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service certificate
cleared by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this once you have applied
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
DBS Check
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Travel expenses to placements, the student pays the first £5 of travel costs per day
Optional costs not included in your fees
Textbooks to supplement anything available through the library
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
This course will broaden your career scope at a time when exciting new roles are emerging in education, health, social care, community and voluntary settings. You’ll be ideally prepared for careers in:
Family Support
Health Promotion
Health Work in Schools
Community Work
Family Centres
Parenting Support
Childcare Teams
Targeted work with vulnerable families
You could also continue your studies to postgraduate level if you would like to specialise further. For example, you could consider one of our postgraduate courses in Nursing or our
MA Social Work
. If your interest lies in teaching, there are opportunities to progress to a PGCE too.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Applied Social Work BA (Hons)
Health and Social Care BA (Hons)
Social Work MA
Chat to our students
−