Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/civil-engineering-degree-apprenticeship/

Civil Engineering Degree Apprenticeship - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Civil Engineering Degree Apprenticeship
Apply now
Apply now
Apprenticeship Course
Civil Engineering Degree Apprenticeship
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Benefits
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Next course date
September
Duration
Minimum of 4 years to 4 and a half years
Lecture/workshop days - dates/times
Apprentices would be expected to attend the University on a day release basis for 28 days each year or by other study methods if negotiated with an employer.
Course description
To progress in a career in civil engineering, look no further than a Civil Engineering Degree Apprenticeship in Derby – accredited by the
Joint Board of Moderators
and forged in partnership with the regional construction and infrastructure industry.
Studying for a Civil Engineering Degree Apprenticeship at the University of Derby provides access to Gold-rated teaching, exceptional specialist facilities and a practical course designed to promote capability and competence within the civil engineering field.
We’ve invested over £12 million in industry-focused laboratories, including those dedicated to structures, geotechnics, hydraulics, concrete and materials testing, with substantial equipment used in advanced geomatic surveying.
Apprentices will benefit from on-the-job practical training and degree level academic learning, including a significant online element.
An online portal enables employers to track apprentice progress, including assessment and monitoring data.
As part of your apprenticeship you will study our BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering (Apprenticeship), which is accredited by the Institution of Civil Engineers for the academic underpinning you require to become an Incorporated Engineer.
Strong professional credentials
This degree is accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM) comprising the Institution of Civil Engineers, Institution of Structural Engineers, Institute of Highway Engineers, the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation and the Permanent Way Institution on behalf of the Engineering Council as fully satisfying the educational base for an Incorporated Engineer (IEng).
Who is this course for?
Our apprenticeship programme is suitable for individuals who undertake design, feasibility, project planning or site work for projects and operations in road, rail, water, infrastructure management, including safety and quality checks.
How apprentice Alex found his true calling
After several years and one wrong turn, Alex Johnson is now a happy man. He's working in the civil engineering sector, studying on our Civil Engineering Degree Apprenticeship, and is confident that this is the field he wants to forge a career in.
Find out more about Alex's journey
Find out more about Alex's journey
Structure, certificates and assessment
The apprenticeship runs over a minimum of four to four and a half years and incorporates a part-time day release honours degree (other study modes negotiable) with on-campus teaching at the University and online delivery through University of Derby Online Learning (UDOL).
You will study the  BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering (Apprenticeship). Your academic apprenticeship is specified in the Programme Specification and involves assessments which are specially designed to include work-based learning.
Level 4
Applied Mathematics 1
Construction Materials Technology
Construction, CAD and Personal Development
Structures 1
Site Surveying 1
Civil Engineering Construction and H&S
Level 5
Applied Mathematics 2
Geology and Soil Mechanics
Structural Design 2
Infrastructure Surveying and Asset Management
Fluids and Drainage Engineering
Infrastructure Design and Materials
Level 6
Final year project module - Independent Study and Professional Development
Geotechincal Engineering 2
Structural Design Project
Hydraulic Engineering
Civil Engineering Construction Management
Why studying a Higher Degree Apprenticeship in Civils has benefited Anna
View Why studying a Higher Degree Apprenticeship has benefited Anna video transcript
Request more information about our apprenticeship programmes
Want to talk to a member of the team about our apprenticeship programmes? Make an enquiry and a member of our team will get in contact with to provide you with more information about our apprenticeships, and how our programmes can up-skill your workforce.
Request more information about apprenticeships
Request more information about apprenticeships
Benefits
Benefits to Employers
Offers an apprenticeship which has been specifically designed to meet the requirements of the Degree Apprenticeship in civil engineering, so qualifies for the Levy.
Your Appentices will undertake degree level and on-the-job practical training enabling them to contribute to the business at a strategic level before they graduate.
Curriculum has been designed to reflect the latest developments in civil, structural, geotechnical, hydraulic, surveying and transport infrastructure engineering within the construction and service industry so that graduates will have cutting-edge skills.
Access for your apprentices to the latest resources in engineering at the University including construction methods, site investigations, new and composite materials and latest computer-aided design software.
Entry requirements
Minimum academic qualifications of at least 96 UCAS points or above at A-level or equivalent, to include Mathematics plus at least one further STEM-based subject such as Physics, ICT, Computing and Electronics. Apprenticeship candidates will typically have at least three A-levels at Grades A*-C including Mathematics and Physical Science or their equivalent or will have completed a Level 3 Apprenticeship as a Civil Engineering Technician, plus five GCSEs at Grade A-C including Mathematics, English Language and Double Science or equivalent qualification. Individual employers will also set their own selection criteria and typical entry requirements. Direct entry at Level 5 (if allowed within the Levy) will depend on achieving recognition of prior learning equivalent to Level 4 of the degree.
This apprenticeship includes a degree in:
BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering (Apprenticeship)
To apply for this apprenticeship you must currently be in paid employment of at least 30 hours per week. Your employer must cover the costs of the apprenticeship.
Fees and funding
Employers:
Cost of the apprenticeship will normally be in line with the funding band £27,000, but individual agreements will be considered depending on student numbers and involvement of employers.
Apprentices:
Fees will be paid by your employer with government funded support or through the apprenticeship levy.
How to apply
Applications to this apprenticeship will need to be made through the employer.
However, you can find out more from us - please see below for contact information.
Contact us
Apprenticeship Hub
Email:
apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk
Phone:
01332 593092