Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/built-environments-courses/civil-engineering-beng-hons/

Civil Engineering BEng (Hons) - Built Environments - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Built Environments
Civil Engineering BEng (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Civil Engineering
BEng (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years (compulsory placement year)
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
128
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
H291
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
This course is available to study with an industrial year or without an industrial year
You'll work on real life projects and case studies and go on site visits and fieldtrips, so you'll be able to put your theory into practice and develop the knowledge and skills employers are looking for
BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering is accredited by the Institution of Structural Engineers, the Institution of Civil Engineers, the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation, the Permanent Way Institution and the Institute of Highway Engineers on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as an Incorporated Engineer and partly meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer. See the
Joint Board of Moderators website (opens in a new window)
for further information
You'll be taught by experienced civil engineering practitioners who are highly skilled in this field, and you'll study in our fantastic facilities at Markeaton Street
Our STEM centre houses a range of equipment which you'll use throughout your studies, including a 10m flume, a state-of-the-art ground penetrating radar and a UAV (unmanned aerial vehicle) with survey and thermal imaging capabilities
Top
10
for academic support
BSc (Hons) Civil Engineering and BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering - National Student Survey 2024
Top
10
for learning opportunities
BSc (Hons) Civil Engineering and BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering - National Student Survey 2024
Top
15
for teaching
BSc (Hons) Civil Engineering and BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering - National Student Survey 2024
96
%
of students were satisfied with the teaching on the course
BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering and BSc (Hons) Civil Engineering - National Student Survey 2024
95
%
of students were satisfied with academic support
BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering and BSc (Hons) Civil Engineering - National Student Survey 2024
Top
15
for satisfaction with feedback
Civil Engineering - The Guardian University Guide 2025
Top
10
for satisfaction with teaching
Civil Engineering - The Guardian University Guide 2025
Top
15
for teaching quality - Civil Engineering subject area
The Times and Sunday Times University Guide 2025
Built Environments - your questions answered
In the below video, Programme Leader for Civil Engineering, Derek Spalton, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Built Environments at the University of Derby.
View Built Environments - your questions answered! video transcript
BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering at Derby
This course will enhance your skills in advanced areas of civil engineering theory, particularly structures and infrastructure design. You'll develop a thorough understanding of the process of civil engineering technical design and management. You'll also be introduced to key design skills in structures, fluids, geology, soil mechanics, surveying and materials.
Photos above are of a group of Civil Engineering students on a trip to Darley Park to study the river topography and analyse river flow paths.
Enhance your skills
If you decide to take an industry year placement it will be between the second and final year of your degree and there are a large number of SMEs, large, national and international companies who are looking for placement students each year. There is a plethora of support available for students who are looking to enhance their employability whilst studying including internships, placements and graduate roles.
You can also get involved with local projects, for example
Down to Earth Derby's
'New Commons'. For the last several years we have been working with Down to Earth Derby, on nature-based regeneration and connecting communities with nature and growing food. A major project we are working on at the moment, with the Eden Project, is a community garden on part of Sturgess Fields, a site owned by the University between Kedleston Road and Markeaton Street sites. The plan is to create a New Commons that will be managed with the community. There are opportunities for you to work on this project, designing sustainable buildings and structures.
Student Stories
Kallum secures job at AtkinsRealis
Kallum Booth, stood out when applying for jobs due to his knowledge of 3D and 2D CAD, structural calculations and surveying. This led him to securing a job at AtkinsRealis.
Komal takes news skills home to India
Graduate Komal Landge came to Derby to fulfil her passion of working in her family’s construction business. Since graduating she has returned to India to fulfil her dreams.
Sam sets his sights on the construction industry
Sam has plans to work in the construction industry and after visiting an Open Day he knew he wanted to study our BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering course.
Strong professional credentials
BEng (Hons) Accredited CEng (Partial), this degree is accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM) comprising the Institution of Civil Engineers, Institution of Structural Engineers, Institute of Highway Engineers, the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation and the Permanent Way Institution on behalf of the Engineering Council as partially satisfying the educational base for a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
Civil Engineering students on a recent trip to scan a tunnel on the Monsal Trail in Derbyshire. Photographs provided by Luke Brammer.
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You'll learn through a mixture of lectures, seminars, tutorials, on and off site laboratory and site work, and visits to companies.
How you'll be assessed
You'll be assessed through workshop laboratories, surveying field work, group work and individual assignments. Some traditional exams maybe involved for design tests.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Derek  Spalton
Programme Leader
Derek  Spalton
Derek was in the Civil Engineering Industry for over 20 years undertaking Design and Supervision of Highway and Drainage Projects in the UK. He has been at the University for 15 years and is the Academic Lead for the Civil Engineering ...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
128
A Level
ABB (At least a grade B in Mathematics or Physics)
T Level
Merit in Design, Surveying and Planning for Construction
BTEC
DDM. BTEC National Diploma/Extended Diploma in Engineering or Physics, including a minimum of a Merit in the Maths unit
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6. Must include passes in compulsory Level 3 subjects
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Use of resources
All necessary PPE, including safety boots
Any module assessed field work
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Books, approx. £200
Additional field trips, approx. £100
Site visits, approx. £50
Optional costs not included in your fees
Travelling expenses for placement visit interviews
Travel to work experience/placements - cost is dependent on your placement venue of choice
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
When you graduate, you'll have lots of career opportunities in civil engineering in fields such as design, maintenance, asset management and construction. You could work in private companies which specialise in contracting or consulting, for local authorities, water companies, Network Rail or the Highways Agency, for example. Or you may choose to continue your studies by taking a postgraduate course, such as our
MSc Civil Engineering and Construction Management
degree.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Civil Engineering BSc (Hons)
Civil Engineering with Foundation Year BEng (Hons)