Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/civil-engineering-construction-courses/civil-engineering-msc/

Civil Engineering and Construction Management MSc - Civil Engineering and Construction Management - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Civil Engineering and Construction Management
Civil Engineering and Construction Management MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Civil Engineering and Construction Management
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2-3 years
UK fee
£9,000 for the full course or £1,000 per 20 credits*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, January
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
Combine in-depth knowledge and practical skills with strategic management abilities to prepare for a rewarding career anywhere in the world
Boost your professional credibility on a course with non-technical accreditation by the Institution of Structural Engineers, the Institution of Civil Engineers, the Chartered Institution of Civil Engineering Surveyors, the Permanent Way Institution, the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation and the Institute of Highway Engineers
This course is also accredited by the
Chartered Institue of Building (CIOB)
Take your first steps towards coveted Chartered Engineer status: this course meets the Further Learning requirements for registration. To gain academic requirements for chartered status, prospective students will need to hold an undergraduate degree which is accredited by the JBM
You can study the Postgraduate Certificate and Postgraduate Diploma as stand-alone awards
Cover critical issues facing the industry today, from flood risk engineering management to sustainable development
Apply your learning to real-world projects and scenarios
Enhance your employability – we’re ranked 15th highest among all UK universities and 12th for English institutions, with 96.9% of graduates in work or further study within six months of completing their degree (HESA 2016)
You can also choose to study the course
Online
Explore your full potential within the fields of civil engineering and construction management with this progressive and stimulating MSc programme.
Student feedback - Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
95
%
of our students agreed that staff are good at explaining things
95
%
of students agreed that the learning material provided were useful
95
%
of students agreed that their research skills have developed durIng the course
A broad and dynamic study programme
You will study modules of keen interest to professionals working in both civil engineering and construction.  These include flood risk engineering management, environmental risk and responsibility and project planning, value engineering and risk management.
We also develop your transferable skills in scholarly writing, research, critical thinking, independent learning, communication and problem solving. Such skills will mean you are ideally placed to engage with Continuing Professional Development (CPD) and further advanced study in the disciplines of civil engineering and construction management.
The combination of core and optional modules enables you to tailor your MSc studies to address topics which are important in successfully achieving and maintaining sustainable built environments – anything ranging from significant property developments to infrastructure projects including highways and railways.
Raise your professional profile
This degree is accredited by the
Joint Board of Moderators (JBM)
comprising of the Institution of Civil Engineers, Institution of Structural Engineers, Institute of Highway Engineers, the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation and the Permanent Way Institution on behalf of the Engineering Council as meeting the academic requirement for Further Learning for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng). Together they represent around 100,000 of the world’s leading professional engineers.
To hold accredited qualifications for CEng registration, candidates must also hold a Bachelor (Hons) degree that has been accredited as partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).*
Please note:
That students completing the MSc who hold an underpinning accredited Bachelor degree accredited for IEng only or a non-accredited bachelor degree will need to apply for an academic assessment to determine whether they will meet the educational base for CEng registration.
This online Civil Engineering and Construction Management Master’s degree is also accredited by the
Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB)
, the world's largest and most influential professional body for construction management and leadership. Members of the CIOB members work worldwide in the development, conservation and improvement of the built environment.
A lot of the work we’ve done, equipment we’ve used etc has been based on realistic industrial practice; this has confirmed to me that I would enjoy a career in the industry as I believe I have already had a go at it on a smaller scale.
Luke Brammer
MSc Civil Engineering and Construction Management
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
This course is made up of three stages – Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma and MSc. You can study the Postgraduate Certificate and Postgraduate Diploma as stand-alone awards.
Postgraduate Certificate
You will study two core modules:
Environmental Risk and Responsibility
This module aims to encourage non-environmental students to critically evaluate how their individual professional actions, decisions and leadership of others interacts and how this interacts with society and the impacts of environmental risk and the sustainable future of the planet. We begin with a global view of how the environment is stressed by anthropogenic actions. The module takes a systemic approach to how responsibility for sustainability challenges does not always lie with the decision maker. There is an increasing need for organisations to go beyond pure legal compliance and consider CSR, decarbonisation, and more efficient use of resources, while it is acknowledged that economic viability is a requirement for both private and public bodies. This is an interdisciplinary module so students will be expected to work outside their areas of expertise and interact with other students and members of the community from different cultural, social, and disciplinary areas to evaluate and offer design and technological decisions to reduce environmental risks.
You will study two of the optional modules:
Transport and Infrastructure Engineering and Sustainable Design
The aim of the module is to gain detailed understanding of the management and design of transport infrastructure in the 21st century using design standards and working with the environment to deliver cost effective, safe and sustainable projects. You will review design practice across a spectrum of transport and infrastructure disciplines including, highways, permanent way and service provision.
Flood Risk Engineering Management
Approaches to limiting disruption and damage from flooding have changed significantly in recent times. Worldwide, there has been a significant move from a strategy of flood defence to one of flood risk management. This includes the use of flood defences, while recognising that managed flooding is essential to a sustainable flood strategy. You will learn how to critically analyse flood risk assessments and suggest appropriate structural and non-structural methods to reduce the impact of flooding.
BIM and Integrated Project Collaboration
The emergence and adoption of Building Information Modelling (BIM) as the industry standard approach for design, analysis, and management of building life cycle has significantly changed the way that designs are procured and transformed into reality. The aim of this module is to develop in-depth knowledge and skills in application and evaluation of BIM enabled design in true collaborative environments, critically reflecting upon the current BIM procedures, protocols and standards required to implement efficient integrated project collaboration within the multidisciplinary built environment team.
Continuing Professional Development and Strategic Management
This module is designed to develop your managerial skills in preparation for work in a global industry environment. You will study strategic concepts and be able to transfer them into your own industry/specialism through a structured approach. Emphasis is placed on managing the global future by analysis rather than by instinct. You will become adept at forecasting, financial analysis but still operate with regard to business ethics. The CPD (Continuing Professional Development) element allows you to contextualise and concentrate your studies in your own discipline adding to your employability in the work place.
Project Planning, Value Engineering and Risk Management
The aim of the module is to gain an understanding of the philosophies and techniques involved in construction project planning, risk management, value engineering and financial management. There are significant risks involved in undertaking construction projects, whether they are financial or operational, and one of the roles of the civil / construction manager is to succeed in removing, reducing or mitigating such risk.
The nature and size of construction and civil engineering projects varies widely, as do the risks involved, and it is through effective project planning that decisions may be found and actions taken to enable successful project completion both on time and within budget. The module will examine the principles and techniques involved in value engineering, which aims to provide the best
value for money
for the client over the whole life cycle of a project. You will evaluate industry practice relating to cost control and the financial management of projects, linking this also to the monitoring and control of time related progress.
Sustainable Construction Methods and Materials
The aim of the module is to expand on your undergraduate knowledge and critically evaluate principles, methodologies and techniques involved in the selection and specification of sustainable construction methods and materials. The necessarily site specific context for the specification of materials for a sustainable architecture varies widely. Considering both the energy in use and the embodied energy of materials, one of the important remits of sustainable construction is to mitigate the use of fossil fuel-based energy consumption.
You will be encouraged to explore, critically analyse and evaluate comparative approaches in the effective specification of environmentally sustainable materials that the successful implementation of sustainable architecture requires. As practitioners within the construction industry you must be able to choose the right material for applications with due regard to the life cycle of building materials, the environmental cost and embodied energy in the manufacturing method.
Geomatic Monitoring and Asset Engineering
Engineering Professionals need to ensure that Infrastructure assets are regularly monitored to ensure that embankments remain stable and that reactive measurements can be made to assess structural elements after incidents, such as bridge strikes. The module will consider modes of failure of structures and ancillary elements including embankment. Modelling of these will be done in 3D to allow detailed analysis, methods of data capture using both remote and traditional topographical methods.
You'll establish ground control models to optimise field time and ensure high-density 3D monitoring using industry software packages. The role of asset management will be considered against BIM and ISO 55000 and how engineers can manage risk with proactive intervention.
Postgraduate Diploma
You will study:
CPD and Strategic Management (core module)
During this module you will develop your managerial skills in preparation for work in a global industry environment. You will study strategic concepts and learn how to transfer them into your own industry or specialism using a structured approach. You will focus on managing the global future by analysis rather than by instinct, and will become adept at forecasting and financial analysis, while considering business ethics.
Project Planning, Value Engineering and Risk Management (prescribed)
The aim of this module is to equip students with an understanding of the philosophies and techniques involved in construction project planning, risk management, value engineering and financial management. There are significant risks involved in undertaking construction projects, whether they are financial or operational, and one of the roles of the civil or construction manager is to succeed in removing, reducing or mitigating such risk.
The nature and size of construction and civil engineering projects vary widely, as do the risks involved, and it is through effective project planning that decisions may be made and actions taken to enable successful project completion.
Flood Risk Engineering Management
The effects of climate change will continue to be debated over the coming years as extreme weather events and global warming become more apparent. In recent years the UK has seen an increase in the number of flood events and flood risk warnings in many areas. This is of increasing concern, to homeowners, developers and insurers.
Approaches to limiting disruption and damage from flooding have changed significantly in recent years. Worldwide, there has been a significant move from a strategy of flood defence to one of flood risk management. This includes the use of flood defences, where appropriate, but recognises that managed flooding is essential to meet the requirements of a sustainable flood strategy. The success of this approach is dependent on integrating enhanced defences and warning systems with improved understanding of the river systems and better governance, emergency planning and disaster management actions.
The module will introduce the concepts of flood risk analysis and management within the context of current UK policies and legislation. Current techniques in considering climate change will be presented in outline, as will latest guidance on producing flood risk assessments. The module will focus on river and urban flooding, including hydraulic modelling techniques, and is designed for anyone who requires an understanding of flood risk and its relevance to river management and development planning.
You will also choose two optional modules, such as:
Negotiated Module
This module is usually studied by part-time students who are in employment as it allows participants to take their practical, work-based experience and develop it within an academic context.
Sustainable Construction Methods and Materials
You will critically evaluate the principles, methodologies and techniques that are involved in the selection and specification of sustainable construction methods and materials. Considering both the energy in use and the embodied energy of materials, one of the important remits of sustainable construction is to reduce the use of fossil-fuel based energy consumption.
Transport and Infrastructure Engineering & Sustainable Design
The aim of the module is to gain detailed understanding of the management and design of transport infrastructure in the 21st century using design standards and working with the environment to deliver cost effective, safe and sustainable projects. You will review design practice across a spectrum of transport and infrastructure disciplines including, highways, permanent way and service provision.
The scope will integrate planning, feasibility, outline and detailed design and draw attention to legal requirements and future costs of maintenance and whole life cycle costing. Project team disciplines will be considered to provide robust and economic designs for current and new infrastructure. You will also consider the role of design checks and the role of information technology.
BIM and Integrated Project Collaboration
The emergence and adoption of Building Information Modelling (BIM) as the industry standard approach for design, analysis, and management of building life cycle has significantly changed the way that designs are procured and transformed into reality. The aim of this module is to develop in-depth knowledge and skills in application and evaluation of BIM enabled design in true collaborative environments, critically reflecting upon the current BIM procedures, protocols and standards required to implement efficient integrated project collaboration within the multidisciplinary built environment team.
Geomatic Monitoring and Asset Engineering
Engineering Professionals need to ensure that Infrastructure assets are regularly monitored to ensure that embankments remain stable and that reactive measurements can be made to assess structural elements after incidents, such as bridge strikes. The module will consider modes of failure of structures and ancillary elements including embankment. Modelling of these will be done in 3D to allow detailed analysis, methods of data capture using both remote and traditional topographical methods.
Establishing ground control models to optimise field time and ensure high density 3D monitoring using industry software packages. The role of asset management will be considered against BIM and ISO 55000 and how engineers can manage risk with proactive intervention.
MSc
You will study:
Independent Scholarship (Built Environment)
This module will enable you to develop your practice in undertaking research by identifying and applying advanced research methodologies, for your postgraduate research project. Your learning will include how to identify, evaluate, and apply diverse research approaches to your own research and the process of collecting and evaluate different types of data and relating your findings to current research. During your study you will be able to construct your own philosophy to approach key research questions. You may also have to compare the use of both quantitative techniques and qualitative techniques in research. You will then utilise and enhance the knowledge and intellectual skills gained during your programme, by means of an extensive investigation of a proposed postgraduate study related to the programme area.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Assignments are aligned to real-life projects and scenarios, with site visits designed to complement the curriculum content.
You will be assessed mainly through coursework assignments. Some assessments are through formal examinations.
You can also study
MSc Civil Engineering and Construction Management
online.
Who will teach you
Derek  Spalton
Programme Leader
Derek  Spalton
Derek was in the Civil Engineering Industry for over 20 years undertaking Design and Supervision of Highway and Drainage Projects in the UK. He has been at the University for 15 years and is the Academic Lead for the Civil Engineering ...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You will require:
A minimum of a 2:2 undergraduate degree in civil engineering or construction management. Consideration will be given to professional qualifications of equal standing and professional experience that would support your application.
If English is not your first language you will need to demonstrate proficiency in English (IELTS 6.0 or equivalent).
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,000 for the full course or £1,000 per 20 credits*
£1,000 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course or £1,055 per 20 credits*
£1,055 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Use of resources
Costs associated with fieldtrips that are part of an assessment, plus optional overnight field course
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
The MSc is your stepping stone into professional roles across a broad spectrum of civil engineering and construction management disciplines.
Career opportunities open to graduates include:
Civil Engineer
Project Manager
Quantity Surveyor
Construction Planner
Estimator
Specialist disciplines such as: Geotechnical Engineer, Structural Engineer, Highway Engineer, Engineering Surveyor, Facilities Manager and Asset Management Engineer
Employers our graduates have gone on to work for include:
AECOM
Severn Trent Water
nmcn
Local Authorities
Highways England
Bowmer & Kirkland
Persimmon Homes
Barratt Developments
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Civil Engineering and Construction Management MSc (online)
Civil Engineering and Construction Management Postgraduate Certificate (online)
Civil Engineering and Construction Management Postgraduate Diploma