Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/counselling-psychotherapy-courses/clinical-supervision-pg-cert-online/

Clinical Supervision Postgraduate Certificate - Counselling and Psychotherapy - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Counselling and Psychotherapy
Clinical Supervision Postgraduate Certificate
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Clinical Supervision
PG Cert
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 1 year
UK fee
£3,150
(2024/25)
‡
International fee
£3,150
(2024/25)
‡
Start dates
September, January, May
Location
Online
For many practitioners becoming a trained Clinical Supervisor is the next step in developing as a professional. Clinical Supervision involves combining your professional knowledge and experience, a range of relevant theory and practices, with awareness and intuition. You can further establish yourself and your credibility while maximising the numbers of people you can work with.
This is the only online postgraduate qualification of its kind in the UK – specially developed for professional practitioners who are providing, or are aiming to provide, clinical supervision to a range of different health professionals including counsellors, psychotherapists, nurses, psychologists or occupational therapists. It may also be of interest to those working in human services with a counselling role who supervise similarly qualified individuals. The course is completely online so it enables you to develop and consolidate your knowledge and skills in this very specific area alongside your current professional life.
Studying online gives you the flexibility to study at the most convenient time and place for you. Course modules still operate within a fixed trimester but you can choose to study during the day, in the evenings, or at the weekend rather than having to attend fixed lectures. You’ve got the control to be able to study when it suits you.
100%
The support for academic skills meets my needs
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2024
100%
There is appropriate access to online library resources
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2024
100%
The workload on my course has been manageable
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2024
A high quality online clinical supervision course
This online Clinical Supervision Postgraduate Certificate course is Quality Checked by
the National Counselling and Psychotherapy Society (NCPS)
. This course alone is not a route to the Accredited Register nor does it fully equip a graduate to practice as a qualified counsellor.
The NCPS is a not for profit organisation whose primary purpose is the advancement of counselling and psychotherapy.
Online study and interaction – invaluable for this reflective course
As well as all the usual benefits that you get when you study online, such as the convenience of being able to work from anywhere, the Clinical Supervision course is particularly suited to online distance learning because it requires a great deal of flexibility, self-appraisal and reflection. This requires time, thought, and the synthesis of accessible theory and practice in different ways. On this course, if you think of an idea, issue or problem, you can post your thoughts (to your Personal Journal or to a Group Discussion Board) straight away. Whereas, in traditional class-based learning, such important moments can be lost.
In addition, this course attracts a range of practitioners from around the world, who work at many different levels, in different organisations. You all have one thing in common, a desire to facilitate others in their professional practice. This course offers you an invaluable opportunity to network and interact with such like-minded individuals in the pursuit of your own learning and growth.
Find out more about the course
Our academic for the online Clinical Supervision Postgraduate Certificate course, Robert Maxwell-Jones talks about the course.
View the online Clinical Supervision Postgraduate Certificate course video transcript
What you will study
If you work within a profession where the development of practitioners is seen as vital, then Clinical Supervision is one way in which this, and the quality of service provision, is ensured. You will study the relevant literature from your specific profession. During this course, you will:
develop advanced supervisory skills you'll need to form and maintain supervisory relationships
analyse a range of supervisory models and educational theory
develop an advanced understanding of supervisory structures and processes
develop a critical understanding of the different ways in which clinical supervision can be assessed and evaluated
develop your ability to work systematically and to effectively manage influencing factors such as organisational, ethical, professional and legal influences
reflect on and develop your supervision skills
In addition, an integral part of the process is that you will focus on your self-awareness through experiential learning processes and will also gain feedback on practice. You will develop your presence, impact and authority and will also have fun learning with other practitioners as motivated as yourself.
There is no requirement for you to engage in actual clinical supervision as part of the intention of the course is to develop these skills.
You can
view the study plan for this online course
.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
Pace of study
We recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete one 20-credit module over a 10-week trimester.
There will be 1/2 virtual classrooms over the 10 week trimester and if you are unable to attend you will be able to download the session to view in your own time.
Assessment method
This course is assessed through 100% coursework with a range of methods, such as essays, research reports, presentations, group work and practical reports.
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Who will teach you
Robert Maxwell-Jones
Programme Leader
Robert Maxwell-Jones
Senior Lecturer in Counselling and Psychotherapy with a focus on online learning, Robert Maxwell-Jones previously worked in the university as an Online Learning Adviser which has enabled him to develop a very student focussed approach ...
View full staff profile
→
Explore all teaching staff on this course
Get a taste of the course content
Our Clinical Supervision Postgraduate Certificate course taster will give you an idea of how online learning works. It includes a selection of content from a course module so you can see what some of our learning material looks like.
You will need to complete a short form to access the course taster.
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Entry requirements
You'll need to:
Be professionally qualified with a minimum of 12 months post qualification experience within a profession that has a basis within the counselling, psychotherapy or healthcare profession
Have evidence of learning at level 6 or equivalent
If you can show you have undertaken learning that is equivalent to a module of the course, you may wish to claim credits for prior learning.
Recognition of prior learning (RPL)
can however only be claimed for a maximum of one module.
You do not need to have a supervisee or supervisory practice experience to enrol onto this course.
English language qualifications
If English is not your first language, or you have not successfully completed your highest level of qualification in English, you will need an English language qualification. For this course you will need at least one of the following:
IELTS 7.0 (or equivalent)
TOEFL 550 (paper based) 213 (computer based) or 80 (internet based)
Pearson Test of Academic English: 66
Cambridge Advanced Certificate: Pass
London Tests of English: we accept level 5 for postgraduate courses
International GCE O Level English Language: Grade C
International GCSE English/English as a Second Language: Grade C
Find out more about our English language requirements
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£1,050
3
£3,150
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£1,080
3
£3,240
About your fees
This figure would be the total cost of this course based on the fee in the current academic year. However, please note that fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase if your course lasts longer than one year.
If you are required to undertake any associate study or additional study as a condition of your offer for the programme, please be aware that the cost for this may be in addition to the programme cost stated above.
Flexible payment plans available
Choose from
two payment plan options
:
Pay monthly and only for the modules you are studying
Pay your full course fees upfront and avoid annual increases
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Current CV
Written reference supplied on headed paper from either a manager, supervisor, tutor or teacher
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Application deadlines
All of our online courses have set start dates throughout the year. We require time to review your application and get back to you with a response before your course starts. Take a look at
information regarding applying for an online course
to see full details of deadlines and term dates.
Careers
This course aims to help experienced health and social care practitioners develop both personally and professionally. It is ideally suited if you wish to:
Specialise in offering clinical supervision and a higher level of expertise within your clinical practice. This could be offered to groups or individuals within either the private or public sector
Improve your employability as a clinical leader or manager
This course will provide you with the theoretical knowledge to offer clinical supervision to both existing professionals as well as students who are commencing their careers and require the guidance of suitably qualified and experienced clinical supervisors. It will, therefore, enhance your career within the profession as well as enable you to progress academically onto a doctoral level of study.
If you are seeking to gain accreditation as a supervisor with your professional body, this course offers a curriculum of clinical supervision that can be used as evidence of academic commitment to the development of your skills.
Progression routes
Progression from this programme can be into the Doctorate of Health and Social Care practice but graduates of this programme may also need to consider their CPD and therefore may access some of the CPD materials.
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
Leading Interprofessional Practice Education Postgraduate Certificate
Clinical Decision Making
Leading Clinical Practice