Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/clinical-decision-making/

Clinical Decision Making - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Clinical Decision Making
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Clinical Decision Making
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
Module details
Module code
7NU510
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
40 credits
Next course date
September (Derby)
Duration
6 months
Location
Derby Campus
Module description
You'll gain an overview of pathophysiological processes to common diseases, using a systems approach and theories relating to aetiology, pathogenesis and clinical manifestations to disease processes. This will include health history taking and clinical examination.
You’ll study on campus for six months enabling you to consolidate your learning experiences and relate theory to practice. You’ll also be required to access appropriate practice opportunities through the negotiation of a learning contract with your mentor. This will enable you to undertake the summative assessment.
Who this course is for
This course is for all health professionals, especially if you are involved with advanced practice or if clinical examination skills and the ability to consider differential diagnosis are required for your professional role.
Trainee advanced clinical practitioners or those accessing the Clinical Decision Making module as a CPD option, require the support of their employers to provide a clinical supervisor for the completion of the Practice Document log assessment. Please check with the programme lead, Donna Brewster,
d.brewster@derby.ac.uk
for further details.
Course team
Terri-Ann Walsh: Lecturer Advanced Practice, Independent Prescriber and Advanced Nurse Practitioner
Donna Brewster - Lecturer Advanced Practice, Independent Prescriber and Advanced Nurse Practitioner
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the aetiology, pathogenesis, clinical manifestations and treatment of common disorders of human function.
Correlate selected physical findings and clinical manifestations of disease with underlying pathophysiology with reflection on the condition and anticipated outcomes.
Formulate clinical diagnosis through the autonomous application and integration of clinical information based on scientific rationale and evidence base.
Demonstrate effective interpersonal skills with colleagues to formulate solutions to problems promoting health and well-being.
Demonstrate verbal and written communication with patients on all matters concerning health history, physical assessment, justifying diagnosis and personal health plan.
Entry requirements
Usually five years post-qualification experience.
Fees and funding
If you are funding your own study, the module price will be confirmed shortly.
For more information on payment options, please contact our Student Records and Fees team by phone on
+44 (0)1332 591063
or email at
studentrecordsandfees@derby.ac.uk
.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.