Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/clinical-management-investigations-and-referral-for-the-advanced-practitioner/

Clinical Management Investigations and Referral for the Advanced Practitioner - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Clinical Management Investigations and Referral for the Advanced Practitioner
Contact us
Contact us
Postgraduate Course
Clinical Management Investigations and Referral for the Advanced Practitioner
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Module details
Module code
7NU519
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
March
Duration
3 months
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Module description
You will develop skills in instigating investigative treatments and interpreting results, in order that the practitioner may identify appropriate treatment plans. The understanding of investigations, results, and referral pathways and the associated interdependence of body systems will be vital in securing competence for the continual development of the advanced practitioner roles.
The module will adopt an on campus teaching and learning strategy. It will run over a four month period to enable you to consolidate your learning experiences and relate theory to practice. The module is designed to support clinical management decision making processes based on investigative data.
For further information, please contact the programme lead, Donna Brewster by emailing
d.brewster@derby.ac.uk
.
Who this course is for
This module is designed to integrate skills and knowledge through prior learning in pathophysiology, health assessment and pharmatherapeutics, focusing on the investigative and treatment phase of care within an advanced clinical arena.
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Critically justify therapeutics and health promotion utilised in the treatment/management phase of disease or injury, considering the wider political, social and economic factors and referral pathway.
Competently assess, interpret and identify treatment elements with consideration of the required communication and education including possible referral and/or discharge of complex patients.
Entry requirements
Usually the applicants will have five years of post-professional-qualification experience.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.