Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/clinically-enhanced-prescribing-pg-cert/

Clinically Enhanced Prescribing PG Cert - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Clinically Enhanced Prescribing PG Cert
Apply now
Apply now
Short course
Clinically Enhanced Prescribing
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Course code
MB9DY
Course credits
60 credits
Next course date
May, September or January
Duration
1 year
Delivery
Blended learning
Location
St Helena, Chesterfield
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Course description
About this module
This programme enables practitioners to develop the skills and knowledge for clinical decision-making and to practice as independent prescribers in line with the standards set by professional regulators.
Health care is evolving to encompass a greater number of more specialised and generalist services both within and outside of the hospital setting. Strategies for the development of NHS services include building competence and capability for qualified health professionals. This programme promotes learner autonomy and competence development to advance your clinical practice.
The Postgraduate Certificate in Clinically Enhanced Prescribing is comprised of one core 40 credit module (Non-medical Prescribing) and one core 20 credit module (Diagnostic Reasoning in Clinical Practice), intended to be undertaken in one year. The programme takes a blended approach, with on campus and online learning, to support you through distinct stages of development over the period.
You can choose to start with the Diagnostic Reasoning in Clinical Practice (DRICP) module, normally in the summer semester (May start), or the Prescribing module in the Autumn (September) or Spring (January) cohort. The Diagnostic Reasoning in Clinical Practice (7NU563) module introduces you to the key elements of clinical assessment, diagnostic decision making and the management of individuals with specific health conditions.
There is an emphasis on developing an autonomous specialist practitioner who can function in local communities across the life course of the population.
The prescribing module provides Pharmacists, Nurses or Midwives, Physiotherapists, Podiatrists or Paramedics with the necessary skills and knowledge to practice and develop as an independent prescriber and to meet the standards set by their regulatory bodies.
How you are assessed
Practical:
Requires the completion of OSCEs.
Exams:
Requires the completion of an OSCE exam in the Diagnostic Reasoning in Clinical Practice module. For Prescribing, Nurses and Allied Health professionals need to score 100% on a calculations test and 80% on a pharmacology examination to achieve a pass.
Course Work:
Requires the presentation of an evidence-based poster detailing specific drugs, and the submission of an essay and case studies.
Additionally:
for the Prescribing qualification practice sign-off is required (verifying 90 hours of clinical practice).
On completion, you will be awarded the:
Postgraduate Certificate in Clinically Enhanced Prescribing Practice
If you successfully complete the non-medical prescribing module, you will receive an interim Postgraduate Practice Certificate award for CPD purposes and to meet professional regulation requirements for registering the qualification.
Interim Awards:
Postgraduate Practice Certificate in Independent and Supplementary Prescribing for Nurses and Midwives
Postgraduate Practice Certificate in Independent and Supplementary Prescribing for Paramedics
Postgraduate Practice Certificate in Independent and Supplementary Prescribing for Physiotherapists
Postgraduate Practice Certificate in Independent and Supplementary Prescribing for Podiatrists
Postgraduate Practice Certificate in Independent Prescribing for Pharmacists
Course team
Jill Gould
: Senior Lecturer; Programme Leader, DN and Nurse prescriber
Alan Bloomer: Pharmacist Lecturer and Independent Prescriber
Rachel Lewis: Pharmacist Lecturer and Independent Prescriber
Jennifer Lee: Pharmacist Lecturer and Independent Prescriber
Louise Boole
: Senior Lecturer, District Nurse and Nurse prescriber
Dr Gerri Mortimore:
Lecturer Advanced Practice, Independent Prescriber and Advanced Nurse Practitioner
Donna Brewster: Lecturer Advanced Practice, Independent Prescriber and Advanced Nurse Practitioner
Helen Johnson: Lecturer Advanced Practice, Independent Prescriber and Advanced Nurse Practitioner
To speak with a member of the academic team please contact
prescribing@derby.ac.uk
Learning outcomes
The programme aims to:
Prepare you to advance your professional autonomy and develop competence as pertinent to your role and area of clinical practice
Encourage a greater awareness of professional roles and scope of practice to facilitate collaborative, integrated practice, networking and team working
Advance critical thinking and decision-making skills in your area of practice
Facilitate the identification of your own development needs and strategies to address these to progress practice and contribute to the education and support of colleagues
Entry requirements
Academic Pre-requisites
Applicants wishing to undertake the programme at academic level 7 (postgraduate) should normally have a first degree. If applicants do not hold a first degree, they must have successfully undertaken a minimum of one Level 6 (undergraduate) or one Level 7 (postgraduate) module within the past five years. For the prescribing module, you must have successfully completed at least one 20-credit module at Level 7.
Professional Pre-requisites
In addition to the academic requirements, you will need to be a qualified health professional with active registration as either a Pharmacist (on the General Pharmaceutical Council register), Nurse or Midwife (on the Nursing and Midwifery Register), Physiotherapist, Podiatrist or Paramedic (on the Health and Care Processions Register).
You will need to be actively practising in a patient-facing role for a minimum of one day per week. Each of the three professional bodies stipulates their individual entry requirements which are outlined below, and can be found in the programme handbook for prescribing (MB9BC) and through the University website using these links:
Non-medical Prescribing for Nurses and Midwives
Non-medical Prescribing for Pharmacists
Non-medical Prescribing for Physiotheraists
Non-medical Prescribing for Podiatrists
Non-medical Prescribing for Paramedics
Professional entry requirements information
Fees and funding
£3,000 total for the year.
How to apply
Students should Apply directly to the University..
Apply directly to the University
Contact us
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.