Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/counselling-psychotherapy-courses/cognitive-behavioural-psychotherapy-msc/

Cognitive Behavioural Psychotherapy (BABCP accredited) (incorporating PG Cert/PG Dip) MSc - Counselling and Psychotherapy - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Counselling and Psychotherapy
Cognitive Behavioural Psychotherapy (BABCP accredited) (incorporating PG Cert/PG Dip) MSc
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Cognitive Behavioural Psychotherapy (Adult or Children and Young People)
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 2 years,  Part-time: 3 years
UK fee
£11,340 for the full course or £1,260 per 20 credits
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 per year of study
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Study the
BABCP accredited
Postgraduate Diploma course
Develop as an ethical practitioner and gain confidence in contemporary ‌ theories and practice in Cognitive Behavioural Psychotherapy‌
Become an innovative reflective practitioner with a critical approach, informed by evidence-based practice
Train as a practitioner who’s in line with contemporary, academic, NHS, scientific and professional body standards, and undertake interprofessional learning opportunities
Learn from a highly committed, qualified, and experienced lecturing team
Our aim is to help you to become a skilled, independent cognitive behavioural psychotherapist. If you’re a caring professional who would like to develop expertise in evidence-based psychotherapy, this course is for you.
You’ll be encouraged to become a reflective practitioner and increase your awareness and theoretical understanding of cognitive behavioural psychotherapy. You’ll consider the theoretical, social, cultural and ideological contexts in which your clients perceive, confront and manage problems. You will also study the major trends and orientations within cognitive behavioural psychotherapy.
We’ll encourage you to adopt an informed and critical approach to the professionalisation of psychotherapy, with a particular focus on ethical issues.
Our teaching and learning approach varies depending on the nature of the subject. They will incorporate strategies such as problem based learning, lectures, group work and skills based practice to provide you with a practical, occupationally focused learning experience. All the members of our teaching team are practising cognitive behavioural therapists. You will also be allocated a personal tutor who will monitor your progress and support your studies.
Most people study this course part-time to fit around their other commitments.
We’re proud to say that our courses are closely mapped against the health and social care sector. This ensures that our curriculum is up-to-date, providing you with the assurance that your learning is current and relevant. This does mean that we do have to respond to national changes such as government policy. As a result, some of the information about our courses may change.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
This course is made up of three stages – Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma, and MSc.
Postgraduate Certificate
From November you’ll need to commence your clinical placement and allow time for clinical supervision. Securing a placement for the duraction of this programme will be your responsibility. Placement hours are subject to change. We have strict requirements for supervisors in terms of qualifications and experience, therefore we ask you to find a BABCP accredited practitioner who offers supervision.
You’ll study modules such as:
Fundamentals of Cognitive Behavioural Psychotherapy
Cognitive Behavioural Specialist Practice (Adult)
Cognitive Behavioural Professional Requirements
Postgraduate Diploma
You’ll study modules such as:
Ethics, Law and Research in Cognitive Behavioural Psychotherapy
Cognitive Behavioural Advanced Practice and Professional Requirements (Adult)
MSc
You’ll study this module:
Independent Scholarship
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
How you will learn
Our teaching and learning approach varies depending on the nature of the subject. They will incorporate strategies such as problem-solving, lectures, group work, and skills based practice to provide you with a practical, occupationally focused learning experience. All the members of our teaching team are practising cognitive behavioural therapists. Your personal tutor will monitor your progress and support your studies.
How you will be assessed
You will be assessed through:
Critical case studies,
that examine your ability to apply theoretical knowledge to clinical practice.
Observed exams
and
video recordings
of clinical practice combined with critical analysis of your own performance which examines your ability to use and adapt high level skills into clinical practice and to critique your own performance.
A reflective portfolio
that will demonstrate your ability to apply research findings, problem solve and evaluate outcomes. The portfolio will fulfil the professional requirements for accreditation with the BABCP.
You will also complete
written assignments
to demonstrate your academic ability to critically analyse and synthesise your findings, and undertake a clinical examination to test your professional judgement and critical decision-making.
Entry requirements
These normally include an undergraduate degree in a health and social care related area including experience in a relevant field.
Applicants with a core profession in mental health nursing, occupational therapy, social work, psychiatry, psychology or counselling will require at least two years of post qualification experience in mental health care.
Individuals without a recognised core profession can be considered through the development of a Knowledge, Skills and Attitude (KSA) portfolio of evidence plus at least two years of post qualification experience in mental health care.
Applicants with a qualification in cognitive behavioural psychotherapy, or substantive experience in supervised practice may be eligible for entry via Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL).
If English is not your first language you must have achieved an IELTS score of at least level 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each skill area).
A
Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS)
is required as they provide the criminal records checking service for the programme.
Interview information
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£11,340 for the full course or £1,260 per 20 credits
£1,260 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 per year of study
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£11,655 for the full course or £1,295 per 20 credits
£1,295 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 per year of study
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Travel costs to placements
Core textbooks approx. £150
Professional membership of BABCP approx. £28- £37 per year
Clinical supervision if this is not provided by your placement approx. £40-£100 per hour
Professional liability insurance, cost varies
Optional costs not included in your fees
Any additional academic books that students may require
Professional BABCP membership required to practice. More details can be found
www.babcp.com
DBS check
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
English language entry requirements must be achieved and evidenced as part of an application and before an interview can be offered for this programme.
Careers
As an autonomous cognitive behavioural psychotherapist you will be able to further your career in employment as diverse as social services, the NHS, primary care, education, or the voluntary and private sectors. Some of our students have taken up research posts or commenced Doctoral level training.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Other courses you might like
Integrative Counselling and Psychotherapy (incorporating PG Cert/PG Dip) (BACP Accredited) MSc