Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/nursing-courses/community-specialist-practice-bsc-hons/

Community Specialist Practice BSc (Hons)  - Nursing - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Nursing
Community Specialist Practice BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Community Specialist Practice
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS code
B700
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
The best bits
Study a Programme for registered nurses who wish to gain a professional qualification in district nursing or general practice nursing
Realise your full theoretical and practice potential within clinical placements
Work alongside a mentor or practice teacher to enhance your clinical skills
Graduate with a greater understanding of a professional role so you can bring about integrated and high quality health and social care
Develop specialist assessment, leadership and management skills
The Specialist Practitioner role
This role requires skills in negotiating, teaching and supporting patients and their carers’ whilst effectively collaborating with other agencies and services involved in enabling patient safety. The programme reflects the contemporary and future requirements for the Specialist Practitioner to ensure flexibility to respond to future strategic developments in community health.
The course is for qualified nurses who want to gain a professional qualification in district nursing or general practice nursing. For those who hold either a Diploma or Advanced Diploma in nursing studies, it will enable you to top up your qualification to degree level. If you already have a nursing degree then you can progress onto our
MSc Community Specialist Practice
.
Within primary care the role of the district nurse and general practice nurse is changing to reflect the needs of communities. There is a lot more emphasis on bringing care to patients so it is closer to their home environment. This means you will be keeping your professional development in line with latest health care guidelines.
By completing this course you'll be able to demonstrate a critical understanding of clinical practice, care and programme management, clinical practice leadership, and clinical practice development. Programme content around diagnostic reasoning in clinical practice supports the development of autonomy and safe practice for non-medical prescribing. We'll teach you in a variety of ways including lectures, workshops, seminars and group discussions. You'll be assessed through assignments, exams, presentations and the production of a practice portfolio. You'll also be assessed on your placement by your practice teacher.
Practice assessment will encompass clinical care, facilitation of learning, leadership and management, Evidence, research and development.
In order to study this course you'll need to apply for a place through a  sponsoring organisation so they can support you throughout your practice placements and provide you with a practice teacher. Without this, unfortunately we won't be able to offer you a place.
We’re proud to say that our courses are closely mapped against the health and social care sector. This ensures that our curriculum is up-to-date, providing you with the assurance that your learning is current and relevant. This does mean that we do have to respond to national changes such as government policy. As a result, some of the information about our courses may change. Please check the website for the latest information.
You'll complete a practice based project, work within a District Nursing Team and be taught by a range of lecturers with specialist qualifications and clinical practitioners from local employing organisations.
Top
15
for graduate prospects
Health Studies subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
Top
15
for student satisfaction
Nursing and Midwifery subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
By completing this course you’ll be able to demonstrate a critical understanding of clinical practice, care and caseload management, clinical practice leadership and clinical practice development. Within the Specialist Practice Module you will undertake the V100 Community Nurse Prescribing qualification to enable you to become an independent prescriber. Whilst studying on this course you’ll spend equal amounts of time in clinical practice on placement and in the learning environment on campus. This means that you’ll gain a mixture of theory and practical experience, supporting you to provide effective patient care when you graduate.
You'll study modules such as:
Stage one
Principles of Practice Assessment
Public Health and Health Promotion
Evidence Based Project
Leading for Quality
Applied V100 prescribing
Symptom Management in palliative
Principles of Long Term Conditions management
Palliative Care
End of Life Care
Educating Health and Social Care
Tissue Viability.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
We’ll teach you in a variety of ways including lectures, workshops, seminars and group discussions. You'll spend half of your time on practice placement. Your placement is a key element of your learning and you will gain vital skills and experience working within primary care settings. Placement hours are subject to change.
You will complete a practice based project, work within a District Nursing Team and be taught by a range of lecturers with specialist qualifications and clinical practitioners from local employing organisations.
How you're assessed
You will be assessed through assignments, exams and presentations, You will also be assessed in your placement by your mentor/practice teacher against the NMC (2001) Specialist Education and Practice Standards through the use of case based discussions, observation and evaluation of clinical practice.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
You will need:
120 credits at Diploma level
A current nurse or midwife qualification and have a current registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council
A student Health Visitor or Occupational Health Nurse or School Nurse position from a seconding/sponsoring organisation
At least one year of post-registration experience due to the requirements of the V100 prescribing component, and two years if taking the V300 non-medical prescribing qualification
Additional entry requirements
An
Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service certificate
cleared by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this once you have applied
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
N/A
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University
Careers
This Programme will encourage you to reflect on your practice and develop the knowledge and skills you’ll need to keep your career moving forward. When you have completed this Programme you’ll have the relevant skills to autonomously practice in your own area of expertise and become a confident Specialist Practitioner.
When you've completed this course you could continue your professional development by studying a masters such as our
MSc Advanced Practice
and take your career to the next level. Alternatively you could study towards being a Practice Teacher by studying your Post-graduate certificate in Inter professional Practice Education.
If you already have a bachelors degree in nursing then you should study our
MSc Community Specialist Practice
which will help you to become an advanced practitioner in your own area of expertise.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Course: Louise Boole (Programme Leader)
l.boole@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 592351
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Discover Uni
Other courses you might like
Nursing (Adult) BSc (Hons)
Nursing (Mental Health) BSc (Hons)
Chat to our students
−