Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/nursing-health-care-practice-courses/community-specialist-practice-msc/

Community Specialist Practice (District Nursing) MSc - Nursing and Health Care Practice - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Nursing and Health Care Practice
Community Specialist Practice (District Nursing) MSc
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Community Specialist Practice (District Nursing)
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: Up to 3 years
UK fee
£6,408 for the full course*
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
If you are an NMC Registered Nurse, this will enable you to:
Expand your knowledge, skills and proficiency in the role of the Community Specialist Practitioner
Work within a community/ primary care placement supported by a qualified mentor/ Practice Teacher
Study modules that directly enhance your clinical practice, management abilities and patient outcomes
Graduate with a greater understanding of a professional role so you can bring about integrated and high quality health and social care
Develop specialist assessment, leadership and management skills
Join with a first degree at 1:1 or 2:1 having 120 credits at degree level or equivalent academic credits or Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL)
This course will enable you, as an experienced NMC Registered Nurse, to expand your knowledge, skills and proficiency in your role as a Community Specialist Practitioner, and to progress to independent scholarship.
You will study modules that are linked to clinical practice, such as public health and health promotion, research methodologies, principles of practice assessment and leading for quality to help your professional development. You will focus on the importance of leadership and develop an in-depth knowledge of professional roles, so you can bring about integrated and high quality health and social care.
Half of your time will be spent on placement*, giving you hands-on experience that will support the theoretical aspects you have studied. You will study the Postgraduate Diploma full-time for one year or part-time for two years in order to gain the specialist recordable qualification. The optional MSc stage will take a further year. You will be taught using a range of methods including lectures, workshops, seminars and problem solving. Assessment methods are varied and include assignments, exams and presentations.
*Placement hours are subject to change.
During the MSc stage you will carry out an extended, innovative and critical research study, systematic literature review or practice-based project which analyses and evaluates an aspect of your specialist nursing area.
This course meets Nursing and Midwifery Council standards, so you will gain a recordable qualification in District Nursing or General Practice Nursing.nu
We are proud to say that our courses are closely mapped against the health and social care sector. This ensures that our curriculum is up-to-date, providing you with the assurance that you’re learning is current and relevant. This does mean that we do have to respond to national changes such as government policy. As a result, some of the information about our courses may change. Please check the website for the latest information.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
By completing this programme you will be able to demonstrate a critical understanding of clinical practice, care and caseload management, clinical practise leadership and clinical practice development, to enable you to become an independent prescriber. Whilst studying on this programme you will spend equal amounts of time in clinical practice and the learning environment. This means you will gain a mixture of theory and practical experience, ensuring you're prepared to provide effective, high quality care with the patients’ best interests in mind.
You will study module such as:
Principles of Clinical Practice and Assessment
Innovation, Leadership and Team Development
Public Health and Educating Communities
Research, Management and Consolidating Clinical Practice
Fundamentals of Long-term Condition Management (Non-medical Prescribing)
Mental Health across the Lifespan (Non-medical Prescribing)
Non-medical prescribing for nurses and midwives (Prescribing)
Applied V100 prescribing/V300 Non-medical prescribing.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
This course involves a range of delivery, including lectures, workshops, seminars, group discussions, action learning sets and problem based learning.
How you're assessed
You will be assessed through assignments, exams, presentations, and the production of a practice portfolio. You will also be assessed on your placement by your practice teacher.
Entry requirements
You should:
Be registered on part one of the Nursing and Midwifery Council register
Have gained a student District Nurse or General Practice Nursing position from a seconding/sponsoring organisation
Have a first degree at 1:1 or 2:1 having 120 credits at degree level or equivalent academic credits or Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL)
Have at least one year of post-registration experience due to the requirements for the V100 prescribing and three years if taking the V300 Non-medical prescribing qualification (NMC 2006)
The student will have successfully applied for a clinical secondment/sponsorship with a local Care Provider/employer prior to applying for this Programme.
It is the Employers responsibility to ensure that any necessary Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) checks and health checks are carried out, proof of this and indemnity will be required prior to commencement of the Programme.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£6,408 for the full course*
£712 per 20 credits
International
N/A
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Careers
You will gain a qualification which meets the standards of proficiency, and fits with the current health agenda in the area of community specialist practice, so it will really boost your career.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Course: Louise Boole (Programme leader)
L.Boole@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 592351
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.