Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/computing-courses/computing-and-information-technologies-university-advanced-diploma-online/

Computing and Information Technologies University Advanced Diploma - Computing - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Computing
Computing and Information Technologies University Advanced Diploma
Apply now
Apply now
Undergraduate Course
Computing and Information Technologies
University Advanced Diploma
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 1 year
UK fee
£2,715
(2024/25)
‡
International fee
£2,715
(2024/25)
‡
Start dates
September, January, May
Location
Online
Developed by leading specialists, our newly updated Computing and Information Technologies University Advanced Diploma (UAD) has been designed around diverse cutting edge issues, events and digital developments.
The course will allow you to deepen your knowledge and understanding through research, case studies and practical skills-based projects. With a core focus on professional ethics and the wide-ranging impact of computing technologies in society, the programme will support learners in acquiring crucial skills which underpin the duties and responsibilities of today’s computing professionals.
Why choose this course?
Contemporary, updated diploma from a recognised UK University
Three start dates a year (September, January and May)
Study at your own pace, part-time online using a virtual classroom environment, supported throughout by a team of academic professionals
Engagement in a vibrant learning community, building your network of likeminded individuals within the UK and potentially across the world
Guest speakers from industry
A stepping stone towards a BSc (Hons) degree
The course can be completed within one year part-time (depending on your pace of study)
The course particularly focuses on gaining confidence and skills in:
Problem solving – critical understanding of essential facts, concepts, principles and theories, appraising technical, environmental and social issues
Designing, documenting and testing computer programmes and/or hardware
Critically evaluating and advising on emerging technologies
Working effectively within a team and communicating with others
This online qualification will set you on a positive path to successfully furthering your career.
Who is this course for?
Those wishing to progress within the Computing and IT sector such as:
IT support engineers, network engineers
Systems administrators and IT teachers
The knowledge and skills gained from studying this programme will enhance your ability to develop your career and/or enrich your professional practice. Furthermore, the programme may enhance your academic ambitions which may include progressing to the
Computing and Information Technologies (Top-Up) BSc (Hons) degree
.
Data Science Research Centre (DSRC)
Our team of computer and data science specialists are using their expertise to explore new ways of processing large sets of data to solve real-life problems.
Learn more about the centre
Learn more about the centre
What you will study
This online Computing and IT course is made up of one core module and two optional modules.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
Pace of study
We recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete one 20-credit module over a 10-week trimester.
There will be 1/2 virtual classrooms over the 10 week trimester and if you are unable to attend you will be able to download the session to view in your own time.
Assessment method
This course is assessed through 100% coursework with a range of methods, such as essays, research reports, presentations, group work and practical reports.
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Get a taste of the course content
Our Computing and Information Technologies University Advanced Diploma course taster will give you an idea of how online learning works. It includes a selection of content from a course module so you can see what some of our learning material looks like.
You will need to complete a short form to access the course taster.
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Entry requirements
You need to have one of the following:
HND or foundation degree in a computing subject from a UK university - or international equivalent recognised by NARIC (National Recognition Information Centre)
Edexcel BTEC Level 5 HND Diploma in Computing and Systems Development - 2010 QCF (Qualifications and Credit Framework)
British Computer Society (BCS) Diploma in IT (level 5) - including completion of the professional project
HNC in computing subject plus at least 3 years relevant work experience in a computing role*
Evidence of significant work and life experience which may be taken as the equivalent of traditional qualifications
When you apply, please send us a transcript of the modules you've already studied. This means we can make sure your HND or Foundation degree is compatible with this course.
*If you are entering with an HNC you will need to first study and obtain a minimum pass rate of 40% in the level 6 'Computing Technologies in Society' module.
English language qualifications
If English is not your first language, you will need an English language qualification. For this course, you will need at least one of the following:
IELTS (International English Language Testing System) 6.5
TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) 580 (paper based), 237 (computer based) or 92 (internet based)
Pearson Test of Academic English: 58
Cambridge Advanced Certificate: pass
London Tests of English: we accept level 4 for undergraduate courses
International GCE O Level English Language: grade C
International GCSE English/English as a Second Language: grade C
Find out more about our English language requirements
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£905
3
£2,715
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£955
3
£2,865
About your fees
This figure would be the total cost of this course based on the fee in the current academic year. However, please note that fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase if your course lasts longer than one year.
If you are required to undertake any associate study or additional study as a condition of your offer for the programme, please be aware that the cost for this may be in addition to the programme cost stated above.
Flexible payment plans available
Choose from
two payment plan options
:
Pay monthly and only for the modules you are studying
Pay your full course fees upfront and avoid annual increases
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Current CV
Written reference supplied on headed paper from either a manager, supervisor, tutor or teacher
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Application deadlines
All of our online courses have set start dates throughout the year. We require time to review your application and get back to you with a response before your course starts. Take a look at
information regarding applying for an online course
to see full details of deadlines and term dates.
Careers
This programme is designed for learners who wish to advance their knowledge and understanding of important aspects of Computing and Information Technologies in order to enhance career opportunities or to prepare themselves for postgraduate research. Importantly, it does not solely focus on digital technologies but also places these in context in respect of both their impact on society and the environment.
It will provide you with highly transferable subject, academic and practical skills which are widely sought by today’s Computing and IT employers.
This course is also an excellent stepping stone to gaining a full degree, which can be obtained by going on to study the
Computing and Information Technologies (Top-Up) BSc (Hons)
, which can be completed part-time online.
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
Computing and Information Technologies (Top-Up) BSc (Hons)
Computer Science BSc (Hons)
Information Technology BSc (Hons)