Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/computing-courses/computer-games-programming-bsc-hons-foundation/

Computer Games Programming with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)  - Computing - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Computing
Computer Games Programming with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Computer Games Programming with Foundation Year
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
G45F
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
The best bits
Spend the first year learning the fundamentals of computer science and finding out what your passions are and where your talents lie
Learn in our state-of-the-art-facilities including our XR (cross-reality) lab
Gain both the theoretical knowledge and the practical skills you need to develop first-rate games
Choose to take an optional industrial placement year which will add substance to your CV and broaden your professional networks
Benefit from the flexibility of transferring to another course in our Computing portfolio after your first year
You won’t have any written exams as all assessment is through coursework
Top
20
for academic support
National Student Survey 2024 - Computer Games and Animation subject area
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
An impressive portfolio of skills
On our dynamic BSc (Hons) degree
you’ll be equipped with both the theoretical grounding and the practical skills you need to develop compelling computer games.
You’ll gain an in-depth understanding of computer science, the theoretical field that underpins all software development. This knowledge prepares you for long-term employability and success as a computer programmer of any kind but applies in particular to the breadth and complexity of computer games development.
You will study computer science with a strong emphasis on the practical programming skills needed for games development.
In your final year, you'll get to work with students on the
BA (Hons) Computer Games Modelling and Animation
degree to create a game. The games are then exhibited as part of our Games Expo where there public will get to try out your creation. You’ll also meet and hear from industry professionals. Previous attendees have included Sumo Digital, Mediatonic and Bloc Digital.
Pursue your personal interests
Through the Independent Studies module, we give you the chance to tailor your studies to match your professional interests and career ambitions. You will develop a large-scale project or conduct a research study into an area of your choice. Previous topics explored by our students include point based rendering, procedural generation of realistic game levels and multi-level AI for elastic difficulty scaling.
Benefit from flexibility
You’ll gain fundamental knowledge in year one studying modules alongside students on our other Computing and Mathematics degrees. At the end of your year one, you’ll then have the option to transfer to one of the following courses:
BSc (Hons) Computer Science
BSc (Hons) Cyber Security
BSc (Hons) Information Technology
BSc (Hons) Artificial Intelligence and Data Science
(subject to Mathematics prerequisites)
You’ll go on to study more specialist modules in your second year with further options to tailor your studies to an area of your interest in your final year.
Facilities
You’ll get to use cutting-edge software development tools in our industry-standard laboratories. Facilities include:
Computer Games Labs:
home to our specialist hardware facilities and software including Unreal Engine, Unity Lab, Visual Studio and Steam
XR Lab (cross-reality):
a
dedicated space for mixed-course games development as well as
providing
a flexible space for visualisation and other projects.
Hardware includes
Vive
Pro Eye headsets, Rifts and Wacom drawing tablets
CAVE Lab:
provides
data visualisation hardware
containing
a 270-degree 3D projection set up
.
Workstations with Tesla graphics cards for data processing and AI projects are also available
Makerspace:
g
et ready to turn your ideas into prototypes! The space includes a whole host of equipment, including 3D printers, CNC machines, and a laser cutter to bring your product to life.
It's
also a great space to collaborate with students from across the University
Linking up with business
We’re proud of our connections with local and international industries. Our course has been designed in close collaboration with them and professional bodies to ensure it meets the needs of employers.
Undertaking a placement year will give you substantial experience to understand the possible careers open to you. Plus you’ll build your confidence and improve success and progression in jobs or in starting a business. Our students have enjoyed placements at companies such as Kuju, Frontier Developments and Sumo Digital.
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Your lectures will be intentionally interactive, incorporating
questions and answers
and simulation. Seminars and tutorials will give you the opportunity to develop understanding and its application in both familiar and unfamiliar circumstances. Practical sessions will give you the chance to develop your skills in both equipment use and the evaluation of experimental procedures and data. In your third year
you’ll
take an Individual Project module where
you’ll
be encouraged to use and apply research and innovation tools and approached in a practical context. Team working will also allow you to develop interpersonal and communication skills – an important skill for the workplace.
How you will be assessed
A variety of assessment methods are used. Some modules are assessed through coursework only, others by a combination of coursework, portfolios, assignments, case studies, oral and graphic presentations, collaborative and interdisciplinary teamwork projects, computer testing and examinations, so providing a flexible and effective means of assessing your progress.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 24, Pass: 21
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to free software from major software vendors such as SAS, Microsoft, Adobe ), Matlab  and VMWare - some are available for student download
Mandatory field trips
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
External hard drive and memory card £50 - £100
Core text books  approx. £250
Some assignments are required to be submitted on CDROM/DVDROM approx. £2
Independent Study dissertations are normally submitted electronically, but individual supervisors have the right to request bound copies. In that case, printing and binding expenses are covered by the student approx. £6 per copy
Optional costs not included in your fees
Personal computer or tablet computer approx. £400
Text books approx. £20
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Skilled games programmers will discover a wide variety of career opportunities everywhere from small start-up companies to major multinational organisations. This course represents the ideal preparation for roles such as gameplay programmer, tools developer and AI programmer. You might even want to start your own company after graduating.
Because the BSc (Hons) Computer Games Programming has such a solid computing and software engineering focus, it also opens up excellent prospects for our graduates across all software development roles in the computing industry.
Software Engineer
Project Manager
Technical Architect
Chief Technology Officer
Product Manager
Games Developer
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Information Technology BSc (Hons)
Computer Science (with pathways) BSc (Hons)
Cyber Security BSc (Hons)
Mathematics BSc (Hons)
Data Science and Artificial Intelligence BSc (Hons)