Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/online/computing-technologies-society/

Computing Technologies in Society - Online short courses - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Online short courses
Computing Technologies in Society
Apply now
Apply now
Short course
Computing Technologies in Society
Apply now
Apply now
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Online course description
Benefits
Fees and funding
Course requirements
How to apply
Online course details
UK/EU fee
£905
(2024/25)
‡
International fee
£905
(2024/25)
‡
Course level
Level 6
Course credits
20 credits
Next course date
27 January 2025 or 26 May 2025 or September 2025
Duration
10 weeks
Delivery
Tutored online learning
Location
Online
Online course description
This course provides a wide-ranging transdisciplinary introduction to the evolution and application of increasingly complex and powerful digital technologies. Particular attention is given to the impact of technologies on society, the individual and the environment. A broad range of past, present and future technologies and techniques are considered within a framework which is designed to support you in acquiring crucial skills which underpin the duties and responsibilities of today’s computing professionals.
A strong research-infused curriculum is adopted and is reinforced by an expectation that you will regularly contribute to the virtual classroom’s Discussion Forum. This will provide opportunities to consider diverse cutting-edge issues and current events - thereby supporting you in the acquisition of a broad range of transferable skills which are of pivotal importance in professional practice.
As part of the assessment for this course, you will have the opportunity to carry out a research-informed case study in which they will be able to focus on ethical issues relating to specific past, current or emerging hardware and/or software systems/trends. Alternatively you may elect to undertake a practically based exercise. In either case, you will work within a small group – with each member being marked individually for their contributions.
Learning outcomes
On successful completion of the course, you will be able to:
Demonstrate competence in understanding key technical and environmental issues concerning the operation, implementation and application of digital systems
Critically appraise past, present and future applications of digital systems with particular emphasis on their impact upon both society and the individual
Formulate professional ethical positions in relation to the development, manufacture, application, proliferation and disposal of digital systems
Participate effectively in group work and proactively contribute to the overall organisation of the group
Recognise the varied roles and responsibilities which are associated with professional activity in the computing/IT domain and the importance of continued professional development
Course content
Indicative topics:
Digital systems and genocide
Environmental stewardship: The computer life cycle – from inception to e-waste
Long-term data archiving
Server farms and sustainability
Digital shadows and personnel privacy
Empowering digital systems – fully automated processes
Predictive modelling
Surveillance systems
Drones for surveillance and warfare
Radio Frequency Identification Devices (RFID’s)
When technology goes wrong – from cancer therapy to avionics
Animatronics
Ethical and professional responsibilities
Ethics in a multi-cultural context
Ethics and the Internet
From technology to human factors
Professional codes of conduct – turning theory into practice
Professional roles and responsibilities – professional development
Pace of study
For this short online course, we recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete one 20-credit module over a 10-week trimester.
Assessment method
This course is assessed through 100% coursework with a range of methods, such as essays, research reports, presentations, group work and practical reports which will be handed in and assessed at the end of the 10 week trimester. There will be 1/2 virtual classrooms over the 10 week trimester and if you are unable to attend you will be able to download the session to view in your own time.
Benefits
Offset course credits towards another qualification
Once you’ve completed this course you may be able to offset the 20 credits towards our
online Computing and Information Technologies BSc (Hons) Top-Up
or the
online Computing and Information Technologies University Advanced Diploma
. This would reduce the number of modules you would need to study and the total cost of the course.
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
UK/EU fee:
£905
International fee:
£905
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
UK/EU fee:
£955
International fee:
£955
About your fees
Prices are correct for the year of entry shown. These are subject to annual increase in subsequent academic years.
Course requirements
You need to have one of the following:
HND or foundation degree in a Computing subject from a UK university - or international equivalent recognised by NARIC (National Recognition Information Centre)
Edexcel BTEC Level 5 HND Diploma in Computing and Systems Development - 2010 QCF (Qualifications and Credit Framework)
British Computer Society (BCS) Diploma in IT (level 5) - including completion of the professional project
HNC in Computing subject plus at least 3 years relevant work experience in a computing role
Evidence of significant work and life experience which may be taken as the equivalent of traditional qualifications
English language qualifications
If English is not your first language, or you have not successfully completed your highest level of qualification in English, you will need an English language qualification. For this course you will need at least one of the following:
IELTS (International English Language Testing System) 6.5
TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) 580 (paper based), 237 (computer based) or 92 (internet based)
Pearson Test of Academic English: 58
Cambridge Advanced Certificate: pass
London Tests of English: we accept level 4 for undergraduate courses
International GCE O Level English Language: grade C
International GCSE English/English as a Second Language: grade C*
* If you don't have GCSE Maths then you can study our Certificate of Credit in Introduction to Maths in Preparation for Higher Education which is a 20-credit module designed to help you develop your mathematical skills in preparation for higher education.
Find out more about our English language requirements
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Current CV
Written reference supplied on headed paper from either a manager, supervisor, tutor or teacher
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
How to apply
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Empower your workforce with block bookings
Take advantage of a short courses block booking to upskill your employees. Our short courses run on-campus and online and include new legislation and other up-to-the-minute issues. Get in touch today and we will tailor a package to meet the needs of your business.
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Other courses you might like
Computing and Information Technologies (Top-Up) BSc (Hons)
Computing and Information Technologies University Advanced Diploma
Online short courses