Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/computing-courses/computer-games-modelling-and-animation-ba-hons/

Computer Games Modelling and Animation BA (Hons)  - Computing - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Computing
Computer Games Modelling and Animation BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Computer Games Modelling and Animation
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years (4 years with a placement year)
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
I710
Start date
September
Location
Derby Campus
The best bits
Learn how to use an extensive range of software and tools, including Maya, Unreal Engine and ZBrush
Access specialist facilities equipped for games development including our XR (cross-reality) lab
Study a course that has a Houdini Certified School status
Take advantage of a year on placement and gain industry experience
Create 3D art for a range of games including first person shooter, real time strategy, city and builder
Work as a team to create a brand new game to showcase at our annual Games Expo
Top
20
for academic support
National Student Survey 2024 - Computer Games and Animation subject area
92
%
of students agreed that staff are good at explaining things
BA (Hons) Computer Games Modelling and Animation - National Student Survey 2024
Houdini Certified School status
We have received Houdini Certified School status which shows the high quality of teaching provided on this course. It also displays our dedication to teaching you the skills and knowledge of
industry relevant programmes
so you can graduate with confidence using a range of software going into the job market.
Another benefit to this certification is that you can receive a home licence to use on your own device up to a year after you've graduated.
Learn in a city rich with game development history
The city of Derby has a rich heritage of game development, stretching back to the 1980s. Its most famous asset is Lara Croft who became famous in the Tomb Raider series of games. These were made by Core Design, the building of which is around the corner from the University where we are teaching the Game Developers of tomorrow how to make games.
There are also a range of computer games development companies in the area such as Bulkhead who are based in Derby and Dambuster and Free Radical who are in Nottingham.
Specialist facilities
You'll create and animate 3D art in a real-time environment using latest techniques and state-of-the-art software development tools in our industry-standard laboratories. Facilities include:
Computer Games Labs
- home to our specialist software access and hardware facilities
XR Lab
- a dedicated space for mixed-course games development as well as providing a flexible space for visualisation and other projects
CAVE Lab
provides data visualisation hardware containing a 270-degree 3D projection set-up
Makerspace
where you can turn your ideas into a prototype
Inspiring student work
In your final year, you’ll work with students on our
Computer Games Programming BSc (Hons)
degree to create a game from scratch. Your game will then be featured in the University’s Games Expo – a public event where you’ll gain exposure to veteran developers and artists from within the games industry. Take a look at the stunning images and showreel showcases that celebrate work made by our students. And hear what our students have to say at our Games Expo.
Computer Games student stories
VR work puts David in the top 30 under 30
David's virtual-reality work on surgical planning led him to be recognised as a future leader in Forbes Česko in the Czech Republic.
Gaming students set up their own studio
After working together in their second year, four Computer Games students set up their own business and released their first game - Cheftastic! Buffet Blast.
Daniel's dream job at Xbox
After Daniel completed his degree, he landed his dream career working for Microsoft Xbox as an Environmental Artist at their Playground Games studio.
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You will study three modules per semester. Each will be delivered through a mixture of lectures, tutorials and practical sessions. In these sessions, you will learn to work with a range of hardware and software, including:
Autodesk Maya
Autodesk 3Ds Max
Substance
Houdini
ZBrush
Photoshop
Unreal Engine
Unity Engine
Steam
In our XR Lab you will use specialist games and visualisation hardware, including Vive Pro Eye headsets, Rifts and Wacom drawing tablets. There are eight workstations outfitted with 2080 graphics cards so you can approach raytracing projects and AI workloads
Our CAVE Lab allows multiple users to experience a shared virtual environment within the 270-degree 3D projection set-up. Workstations with Tesla graphics cards for data processing and AI projects are also available.
How you will be assessed
Assessment is 100% coursework through a mixture of group and individual assignments. In the final year, 25% of your assessment will be for a personal project.
Your year on work placement will take place between stages two and three of your studies.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Roisin Hunt
Programme Leader
Roisin Hunt
Roisin is a Lecturer in Computer Games Modelling and Animation.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Software - Z Brush and Adobe Creative Cloud via university labs. Maya, Substance Suite, Unreal Engine - available for free download at home
Study trips - previously EGX Birmingham £15, Harry Potter World £35
Industry speakers
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Wacom PTH-651-ENES Intuos Pro Graphics Tablet - from £229.99 (This is the model recommended by the College - others are available)
Printer consumables  approx. £100 per annum
Optional costs not included in your fees
Recommended to purchase a portable hard drive approx. £50 -£100
Personal computer with high end graphics card for game development outside of University (Prices vary but on average £1500)
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Your future
The computer games industry needs specialists with a powerful combination of skills so this degree makes you highly employable. In addition, you will discover that the skills you have developed can be transferred to a range of different industries such as film and visualisation.
Previous graduates have gone on to work for companies such as:
Epic Games
Bloc Digital
Jaguar Land Rover
Bulkhead Interactive
Sumo Digital
Ubisoft
Rockstar Games
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Computer Games Programming BSc (Hons)
Computer Games Modelling and Animation with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Data Science and Artificial Intelligence BSc (Hons)