Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/online/cth-level4-diploma-advanced-hospitality-management/

CTH (IOH) Level 4 Diploma in Advanced Hospitality Management - Online short courses - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Online short courses
CTH (IOH) Level 4 Diploma in Advanced Hospitality Management
Apply now
Apply now
Short course
Confederation of Tourism and Hospitality (IOH) Level 4 Diploma in Advanced Hospitality Management
Apply now
Apply now
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Online course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Benefits
Fees and funding
Course requirements
How to apply
Online course details
UK/EU fee
£1,975
(2024/25)
‡
International fee
£1,975
(2024/25)
‡
Course level
Level 4
Next course date
September, January or May
Duration
3-18 months
Delivery
Self-guided online learning
Location
Online
Online course description
You will develop an understanding of how different business disciplines relate to each other in the wider context of business management. You will gain an understanding of the strategies used to run a business and the impact of effective leaders and managers within an organisation. The course will develop your understanding of the key role staff and staff development plays within the success of a business and it will consider the management of consumer expectation and behaviour. You will develop a critical understanding of the role financial management plays within an organisation and the laws which affect the hospitality industry.
This professional course is ideally suited to those who have worked or are currently working in the hospitality sector at supervisory, junior-level management roles or have some line management responsibility but require a formal qualification to progress to more senior positions.
An Approved Teaching Centre for the Confederation of Tourism and Hospitality
We are proud to be
an Approved Teaching Centre for the Confederation of Tourism and Hospitality (CTH)
, bringing a unique online study experience to help prepare learners for their CTH Level 4 assessment and offering a route to a Level 5 and Level 6 Institute of Hospitality accredited qualification.
CTH is the leading specialist professional qualifications Awarding Organisation for the Hospitality and Tourism industry sector. The Institute of Hospitality (IoH) is the industry professional career membership body for the sector. The two organisations have joined forces to offer this unique professional qualification designed to help talented individuals working within the hospitality sector develop their management skills and progress their careers.
"
This Diploma programme is special because it is uniquely focused on people already working in the sector. It
i
s also strongly backed by the industry professional membership organisation, the Institute of Hospitality, so it is a real ticket to potential promotion. We’re delighted to be partnering with the University in launching the course online, especially in the challenging post-Covid19 environment where online delivery is more needed than ever before."
Simon Cleaver, CTH Director of Partnerships
Structure, certificates and assessment
You will complete seven units over a period of up to 18 months. Each unit requires approximately 80 hours of study time which includes wider reading, research and preparing for assessments.
Course units
Strategic Business Management in Hospitality
You will develop your understanding of the importance of creating a realistic and coherent business strategy in the hospitality industry, including an introduction to the key concepts of strategy and how it relates to your own business environment.
Services Marketing and Communication for Hospitality
You will develop an understanding of the principles of marketing in the service environment including the basic marketing principles and their application in relation to your own business in the hospitality industry. You will learn about the importance of marketing communications and the channels of distribution, develop a range of skills in identifying and using the most appropriate communications across a range of business settings within hospitality.
Managing a Customer Focused Organisation in Hospitality
You will develop an understanding of the complexities and considerations in managing the consumer and consumer expectations. This includes the impact of social media and other review mechanisms, understanding customer behaviour and loyalty, and the Total Quality Management (TQM) and service quality. You will also be able to develop an understanding of consumer management and customer relationship management (CRM).
Financial Planning, Business Performance and Control in Hospitality
You will develop an understanding of the management of business performance from both a financial and operational position. You will develop skills to critically analyse business performance and recognise key performance indicators (KPI) that impact on the effective and efficient management of the business function in the hospitality industry.
Leadership and HR Management in Hospitality
You will develop an understanding of effective leaders and managers and their distinctive characteristics and the key components for maintaining and improving business performance. You will also develop an understanding of the nature and importance of staff development and organisational restructuring in the continued development of an effective hospitality organisation.
Managing Changes to Business and HR Legislation in Hospitality
You will develop an understanding of the way in which the hospitality business needs to maintain awareness of legal developments and implement change on a regular basis. You will be able to recognise and evaluate the implications of legislative changes for your own business activities and consider the implications and mechanisms required to ensure compliance.
Professional Development and Project Management for Hospitality
You will develop skills in analysis, scheduling, and simple charting to effectively manage business-related projects. You will also develop your understanding and skills in recognising and managing your own professional development in order to achieve career goals as well as identify your own strengths and weaknesses to develop an individual professional development plan.
Teaching and learning
This self-directed course has been developed by subject experts to meet the requirements set by CTH and is designed to be intellectually stimulating, thought-provoking and rewarding, while preparing you for the CTH assessment. It can be studied at any time and is delivered 100% online, allowing you to manage your studies around work and family commitments. You will be monitored and supported (but not taught) by a University of Derby tutor throughout the course. Your support tutor will:
Welcome you to the course and help you develop your learning plan
Answer any academic queries in preparation for unit/qualification assessments
Signpost other queries to appropriate person/departments
Monitor your progress based on the agreed learning plan
Your online study materials include texts, videos, interactive diagrams, and self-assessment activities to help you develop a good understanding of the subject. As you work your way through each unit you will build your own learning portfolio which will prepare you for the final coursework assessment.
Student resources and student membership of the Institute of Hospitality and Confederation of Tourism and Hospitality.
To support your studies, you will have access to a range of online library resources through University of Derby Online Learning, and student membership of both the Institute of Hospitality and Confederation of Tourism and Hospitality.
What does student membership include?
Student membership for the Confederation of Tourism and Hospitality
includes access to textbooks, industry articles and other study materials. You can also create discussion groups and access the jobs section on the CTH website. Student membership with the Institute of Hospitality includes unlimited access to online resources including ebooks, ejournals and industry reports, free entry to student events, free attendance at webinars, access to the Mentor Me scheme, student discounts and more.
Pace of study and support
The course consists of seven units in seven business areas that can be studied at your own pace online in as little as three months or up to a maximum of 18 months. We recommend that you aim to complete the course within six to seven months. Each unit requires approximately 80 hours of study time.
You will cover the fundamental principles of business management within a hospitality context. This includes areas such as: managing a customer focussed business, strategy, planning, marketing and communications, HR, finance, leadership and how to manage your own professional development.
You can choose the order in which you study the units, subject to availability.
You will not be taught directly but your studies will be monitored and you will receive support from University of Derby tutor Yukari Iguchi.
Assessment method
For each unit, you will be required to complete an end of unit assessment which is in the form of a multiple-choice online test. You will need to arrange to take the online assessment through your designated tutor.
Once you have successfully completed all seven units, you must pass a final online coursework assessment to receive the Level 4 Diploma.
All assessments are set by and take place through the Confederation of Tourism and Hospitality (CTH) which is an awarding body recognised and regulated by Ofqual, who are the official regulators of qualifications, exams and tests in England.
You have a maximum of 18 months to complete 560 hours of total qualification time.
Yukari Iguchi
Academic Lead for Hospitality and Business
Academic Lead for Hospitality and Leisure, Yukari Iguchi, has performed a range of roles including Programme Leader for undergraduate hospitality programmes, International Student Coordinator, International Collaborative Project Manager, and Online and Distance Learning Coordinator.
Email
y.iguchi@derby.ac.uk
View full staff profile
View full staff profile
Benefits
Upon completion of this course, you will be able to progress to further study such as our
Level 5 University Diploma in Hospitality Business Management
and then progress to our
BA (Hons) International Hospitality Business Management degree (Top-Up) online
to gain a full Bachelor's degree.
This course is recognised by industry and will equip you with the critical business management skills to progress your career into a more senior supervisory or management level role within the hospitality and tourism sector such as, but not limited to, Front Office Manager/Supervisor, Restaurant Supervisor, Bar Manager, Operations Manager, or Deputy Manager.
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
UK/EU fee:
£1,975
International fee:
£1,975
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
UK/EU fee:
£2,025
International fee:
£2,025
About your fees
Prices are correct for the year of entry shown. These are subject to annual increase in subsequent academic years.
Choose between three start dates: January, May or September.
Please note:
Full payment for the total amount of the course fees must be made up front before you can access your learning material.
Course requirements
Minimum age: Learners must be 21 years old at the point of enrolment
English language: All applicants without English as a first language must hold at least IELTS 6.0 or other evidence of competence in English at this level. The course is taught in English and assessed by written examinations in the English language.
In addition, learners will require one of the following:
Level 3 qualifications such as the CTH (IOH) Level 3 Diploma in Hospitality Management, or an equivalent qualification, plus a minimum of 3 years professional experience with supervising responsibilities within a hospitality organisation
A good general education, including GCSE English, A* - C, plus a minimum of 5 years of professional experience with supervising responsibilities within a hospitality organisation
Hospitality managers with no academic qualifications may be able to enrol onto this course if they have broad management experience such as recruitment, interviewing skills, reporting and analysing sales, budgeting and control.
Technology requirements
Learners will need a computer or laptop with the internet for both access to online learning resources as well as for taking end of unit tests.
Learners must agree to being recorded whilst taking online assessments.
Information about applying
Apply online through the Online Application Portal.
The course has three intakes, in September, January or May and term start dates can be found together with application deadlines for each intake on our
Applying for an online course
page.
You will be required to provide supporting documents with your application:
A CV
Written reference supplied on headed paper from your manager or supervisor
Personal statement
Copy of your passport
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
How to apply
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Empower your workforce with block bookings
Take advantage of a short courses block booking to upskill your employees. Our short courses run on-campus and online and include new legislation and other up-to-the-minute issues. Get in touch today and we will tailor a package to meet the needs of your business.
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Course policies
Learner charter
Cancellation policy
Code of conduct for learner discipline
Terms and conditions
Other courses you might like
Hospitality Business Management University Diploma
International Hospitality Business Management (Top-Up) BA (Hons)
International Hospitality Business Management University Advanced Diploma