Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/built-environments-courses/construction-management-bsc-hons/

Construction Management BSc (Hons)  - Built Environments - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Built Environments
Construction Management BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Construction Management
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years,  Part-time: 5 years
†
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
104
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
K252
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
Build a firm foundation of management skills to lead construction projects effectively and confidently
.
Our BSc (Hons) Construction Management is relevant, challenging and opens doors to high-achieving careers.
This course is accredited by the
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS)
Take a major step towards membership of the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB), which paves the way for Chartered status and the chance to boost your earning power
This course is also accredited by the Chartered Institution of Civil Engineering Surveyors (CICES)
Gain a wide range of hands-on experience to put your learning into practice
Develop a practical approach to problem-solving and decision-making within construction
Choose to spend an optional year on an industry placement to strengthen your CV further still
Take the opportunity to join UK and European study trips
If you have the potential and ambition to study with us, but feel you’re not quite ready to join the BSc (Hons) Construction Management right now, why not consider taking this course with a
foundation year?
Built Environments - your questions answered
In the below video, Programme Leader for Civil Engineering, Derek Spalton, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Built Environments at the University of Derby.
View Built Environments - your questions answered! video transcript
Our accreditations
There are many benefits to studying an accredited course.
This course is accredited by the
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS)
.
RICS is a globally recognised and highly regarded professional body that promotes positive change in the built and natural environments. They advocate and enforce the highest professional standards in the development and management of land, real-estate, construction, and infrastructure around the world.
This prestigious RICS accreditation sets a quality benchmark which ensures that the BSc (Hons) Construction Management course is delivered to a high standard, includes content relevant to current industrial practice and is future ready, enabling you to tackle societal challenges and create better places to live.
Become a Chartered Surveyor in 2 years through APC-24
If you are aspiring to become a Chartered Surveyor, then this accredited course will put you on track to achieve MRICS status in just 2 years. Upon completing the course, you will be able to go on to complete the Assessment of Professional Competence (APC-24) which requires 24 months of structured workplace training prior to undertaking the final APC assessment.
The RICS Chartered qualification (MRICS) is a highly valued asset in built environment sector, worldwide. This status can provide many professional benefits including being part of a global professional network, access to jobs around the work, and expanding your skills and knowledge, future career prospects and earning potential.
Build your professional network and strengthen your employability
If you are enrolled onto a RICS accredited course, you can:
Join RICS as a
student member
for free, where you'll be able to:
Access an elite network of 134,000 RICS professional worldwide and join the Surveying professional community via the
RICS LinkedIn Group
Benefit from
RICS Matrics
which supports trainee or newly qualified surveyors to build your professional network, expand your skills set and develop connections with other like-minded professionals
Gain knowledge and view resources to keep you at the forefront of industry including RICS Journals, conferences and seminars, training, international practice standards and professional guidance, CPD resources, independent research and cutting-edge thinking
Add value to your CV with an internationally recognised accredited degree and highly regarded qualification, valued by employers as the benchmark of quality
This course is also accredited by
The Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB)
. The CIOB is the most influential professional body for construction management and leadership, and if you become a student member you'll receive:
Invites to CPD, Hub networking and NOVUS events
Members newsletters
Access to the online CIOB library to gain the latest news and industry insights
Public online CPD opportunities
As well as both of these accreditations, the course is also accredited by the
Chartered Institution of Civil Engineering Surveyors (CICES)
. This guarantees that the course meets the standards set by industry, which will provide you with an advantage in the job market after graduating. You can also subscribe to CICES student membership for free and for a year after graduating, where you can:
Access electronic resources including the monthly journal 'Civil Engineering Surveyor'
Log into the library of the Institution of Civil Engineers to receive invitations to regional CPD events, read the monthly eNewsletters and become eligible to enter the ICES student prize and awards scheme
BSc (Hons) Construction Management at Derby
Offering substantial hands-on experience, our BSc (Hons) Construction Management is an excellent route into a career offering a high level of responsibility and rewards.
The first stage of the course introduces you to practical skills in construction technology, develops your ability to interpret data and gives you an understanding of the theories of construction management. Throughout, we encourage you to challenge accepted ideas and analyse competing theories.
As you progress, you will gain a deeper knowledge of construction management through Interdisciplinary Professional Practice and Independent Study.
There is also an optional placement year between stages two and three, which gives you the opportunity to gain the skills and knowledge employers are looking for.
You can also get involved with local projects, for example
Down to Earth Derby's
'New Commons'. For the last several years we have been working with Down to Earth Derby,
on nature-based regeneration and connecting communities with nature and growing food. A major project we are working on at the moment, with the Eden Project, is a community garden on part of Sturgess Fields, a site owned by the University between Kedleston Road and Markeaton Street sites. The plan is to create a New Commons that will be managed with the community. There are opportunities for you to work on this project, designing sustainable buildings and structures.
If you want to ‘top up’ an existing foundation degree or HND qualification to gain the BSc degree, you can also join this course at stage three, subject to bridging requirements being met.
View Civil Engineering and Construction at Derby video transcript
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
How you will learn
The course offers plenty of practical, hands-on experience and there is an emphasis on seminars, small group study and tutorials. We also offer an optional placement year between stages two and three.
In addition, you could take the opportunity to join UK and European study trips. We encourage you to display your work in exhibitions too.
How you are assessed
You will be assessed in a variety of ways including assignments, exams, presentations, class tests, case studies and portfolios. These assessment methods will help you develop your presentation and communication skills which are essential for professional practice
.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Martin Adlington
Programme Leader
Martin Adlington
Martin Adlington is the Head of Civil Engineering, Construction Management and Quantity Surveying, Programme Leader, Senior Lecturer, Assessor and External Examiner with significant experience in all aspects of learning, development an...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
104
A Level
BCC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Free membership of accredited bodies
Year 1 Compulsory Field trip within England, 4 day residential: coach, bed and breakfast
Day trips to free entry venues or construction sites
AutoCAD student version downloadable in personal computer
Use of all labs and appropriate PPE supplied including personal safety boots
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Year 1 Field trip main meals approx. £20 per day
Additional field trips and site visits £100
Additional materials (printing, stationery, portfolio sleeves, folders, etc.)
Optional costs not included in your fees
Optional 4 to 5 day trip abroad with a student contribution of approx. £100 to £200 depending on numbers, which covers flights and hotel and breakfast. University contribution: coach travel, entry to museums and iconic buildings, metro card, guided tour and booklet
Any travel for paid placements
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Once you have completed the course, you will have every opportunity to pursue an exciting professional career in construction management, project management, site management or manufacturing. Because the degree is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB), you will be eligible for membership (MCIOB).
Our graduates go on to take up roles with the main construction and civil engineering contractors for the public sector, including all the major companies. Some enter the teaching profession and others undertake further postgraduate study such as our
MSc in Civil Engineering and Construction Management.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
† Additional information about your studies
Part time:
5 years minimum.
Day release:
2 years part-time. (Day release mode only available for final year of the degree. Study may be more than one day a week).
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Part-time
Other courses you might like
Quantity Surveying and Commercial Management BSc (Hons)
Construction Management with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)