Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/biology-zoology-courses/conservation-biology-msc/

Conservation Biology MSc - Biology and Zoology - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Biology and Zoology
Conservation Biology MSc
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Conservation Biology
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 3 years
UK fee
£11,200 for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£16,475 for the full course
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
As the number of species facing extinction continues to grow at an alarming rate, conservation biologists are in greater demand than ever before. This MSc is your pathway to a worthwhile career tackling one of society’s most pressing concerns.
Deepen your understanding of the scientific principles underpinning conservation biology and explore practical solutions to environmental problems
Study a course recognised for its high academic quality: this MSc is accredited by the
Institution of Environmental Sciences
Gain the practical experience you need for a fulfilling career in conservation or environmental management
Undertake a training-based placement to build the skills and qualities most valued by employers
Conduct fieldwork and research in some of the country’s outstanding natural environments: the Peak District National Park is right on our doorstep
Take a global perspective: our
Tropical Conservation Biology
module takes you to Costa Rica to explore primary and secondary rainforests
Be inspired by our highly qualified and experienced teaching team who are conducting influential national and international research
If you have your sights set on a career in conservation, habitat management or environmental consultancy, this MSc offers an excellent grounding in the skills and knowledge you need.
Trip of a lifetime to Costa Rica
Our MSc Conservation Biology students put their skills and knowledge to the test as they carry out a research project in the Costa Rican rainforest.
Find out more about the trip
Find out more about the trip
Expertise to make a difference
Over 35,500 species are now threatened with extinction, according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List. Current extinction rates are estimated to be up to 10,000 times higher than they would naturally be. There is an urgent need for skilled, forward-thinking conservation biologists who can help reverse this trend.
Our MSc Conservation Biology combines strong theoretical knowledge and practical abilities. You’ll explore the reasons why so many species are endangered and develop vital skills in the management of wildlife and environments. Building on a firm understanding of theory, you’ll find practical solutions to environmental management problems.
The course is accredited by the
Institution of Environmental Sciences (IES)
, which means that it reflects the high standards, ethics and values expected of environmental professionals.
Practical challenges throughout
In the field and the laboratory alike, you’ll have the chance to hone your practical skills in everything from species identification to ecological surveys, sampling methods to statistical analyses.
Our facilities have recently been modernised to offer a first-rate learning environment. They include a glasshouse featuring plants from diverse habitats, an insectary housing many different species, and specialist laboratories. The latest addition to our facilities is our
Aquatic Research Facility
, which has been developed in collaboration with the Sealife Centre, Birmingham. We also have a student research lab where you will have a dedicated space to pursue your independent studies.
Exciting fieldwork in great locations
We bring theory to life with fascinating fieldwork opportunities. You’ll take full advantage of studying close to the stunning landscapes and diverse habitats of the Peak District National Park.
Conservation is a global priority so some students have ventured overseas to conduct their investigations. Our
Tropical Conservation Biology
module takes students to Costa Rica to explore primary and cloud rainforests. Students stay in a private research station that isn't accessible to the public, and is surrounded by primary and secondary rainforests with numerous trails that allow students to explore the rainforest safely.
Costa Rica Fieldtrip
Placement opportunities
To enhance your employability, the MSc includes an optional training-based placement. You’ll work with a host organisation such as a local authority, environmental consultancy, zoo or educational institution to experience ‘real world’ scenarios.
The focus of your placement will be on linking theory with practical investigations and problem-solving. You could find yourself exploring issues such as biodiversity, conservation, flood defence, or environmental contamination and remediation.
Our experienced teaching team
You’ll be taught by a highly qualified team who are supportive, friendly and approachable – keen to pass their knowledge on to you. They include active international researchers whose work has heralded important new approaches to conservation biology and environmental management.
They publish influential papers, speak at global conferences, serve on the editorial boards of scientific journals and are in demand as media commentators.
How we're helping corals survive
Our Aquatic Research Facility is carrying out work with organisations across the globe to make coral reefs more resilient in the face of man-made afflictions.
Read more about how we're helping corals
Read more about how we're helping corals
A vibrant scientific community
We pride ourselves on a learning community which sparks curiosity and nurtures active minds. You’re encouraged to pursue your own specialist interests and, as part of the MSc, you’ll undertake a major independent project to produce a piece of original research which contributes to the world of conservation.
The University hosts an exciting range of special events and talks by leading scientists which will give you insights into latest research and developments within conservation. Subjects have covered everything from the threats facing our bumblebee populations to the evolutionary origins of the dodo. We also have wide-ranging academic collaborations with national and international partners which could open doors for you.
"Before studying the Conservation Biology MSc at Derby I was a secondary school science teacher for ten years. I wanted to make the leap to change to a different career, and the MSc at Derby was the perfect course for me. The ability to choose relevant modules that interest you, and have input into the design of your projects, assignments and thesis, also allows you to further tailor your learning experience, and in my case allowed me to specialise in Aquatic Ecology and develop invaluable skills in this area, which I now use on a daily basis."
Pete Cowley, MSc Conservation Biology graduate
New Bioscience Superlab
The University of Derby has been awarded £5.8 million from the Office for Students (OfS) to develop a new technology enhanced Bioscience Superlab and Research Lab with an opening date in 2025.
Find out more about the Superlab and Research Lab
Find out more about the Superlab and Research Lab
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
This course is made up of three stages: Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma, and MSc. Some optional modules are available in a distance learning format - if you choose one of these module you will study through distance learning and will access the module wholly online.
Please note:
International students are able to take the online modules in the autumn and spring only.
You’ll study modules such as:
Postgraduate Certificate
Conservation Biology in Principle and Practice
- You’ll look at the current state of the biosphere and the reasons why conservation biology is needed. You’ll study the wide range of problems that conservation biology needs to address from a theoretical perspective and contrast this with the realities of conservation biology in practice
Identification for Conservation Biology
- In this module, you will examine the importance of individual species identification to conservation biology. You’ll consider the relative importance of different species to the conservation of ecosystems, exploring concepts including keystone species, indicator species and flagship species
Tropical Conservation Biology -
This module examines the broad spectrum of conservation issues as they relate specifically to terrestrial and aquatic habitats of the tropics. You'll be introduced to the current state of tropical biodiversity, evaluate the methods currently being used to protect these areas and consider the outcomes of existing conservation initiatives. The module includes a residential fieldtrip to the tropics that will allow students to explore, for themselves, some pressing conservation issues, using a problem-based learning approach
Postgraduate Diploma
Analytical Methods for Ecologists
- During this module, you’ll become confident and proficient at applying basic univariate statistical analyses and basic multivariate visualisation and analysis methods. Towards the end of the module, you’ll learn about more sophisticated univariate analysis techniques to cope with more complex data structures. The module will also introduce you to the widely used analysis software ‘R’
You’ll also choose two modules from the following:
Environmental Impact Assessment -
This module aims to develop a sound appreciation of the importance of conducting EIA, together with an understanding of the techniques by which this can be achieved. In conjunction with an appreciation of what is happening globally in relation to EIA. Also the environmental assessment of plans and programmes by SEA is considered
International Environmental Policy and Law -
This module aims to develop a critical knowledge and understanding of environmental policy and environmental law and regulation used for the protection of the environment. Areas covered will range from principles of environmental policy, environmental policy instruments, international agreements, EU legislation, UK laws and regulatory bodies
Habitat Management -
This module looks at the ecological principles behind the management of habitats for their biodiversity. It takes a scientific evidence-based approach to habitat management, translating ecological theory into hands-on practical management
Ecological Surveying -
You’ll explore different approaches to surveys for ecology and conservation, including GPS surveying, GIS mapping, and the analysis and classification of freshwater and terrestrial habitats. You will also look at sampling methods and census techniques for a range of freshwater and terrestrial plant and animal groups
Practical Training-Based Placement Module
- This placement module is an opportunity for you to work with a host organisation, experience real world scenarios, and gain experience towards future employment. The module provides links between theory and problem-solving through practical applications. This will be achieved through investigation of current aspects of the environmental sector in a range of areas such as biodiversity, conservation, flood defence, and environmental contamination and remediation
MSc
Independent Scholarly Activity in Biosciences
- In this triple module, you will plan, conduct, and present a piece of original research on a topic of your choice within the area of Conservation Biology. This is a major part of this course and can be designed to suit your individual interests. You will have the flexibility to research into a topic of your choice, so you can tailor it to meet your career aspirations. Previous students have researched areas such as ecological tipping-points of woodland butterflies, the effect of the diversity of hedgerow plants on insect diversity, the effects of urbanisation on bat ecology, and impacts of human habitation on lion distribution in Kenya.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You’ll be taught through lectures, guest lectures, workshops, practical sessions in the field and laboratory, and tutorials. There is also the opportunity to go on site visits.
The majority of modules are assessed by coursework rather than by exams. A wide range of assessment methods are used, from oral presentations and poster displays, to scientific and professional reports.
Fieldwork
During this course you'll have the opportunity to go on fieldtrips, allowing you to gain first-hand practical experience and learn new skills, such as site surveying and species identification.
View MSc Conservation Biology - Costa Rice Fieldtrip video transcript
Work placements
Our course also gives you the opportunity to apply the theory you learn to a working environment. If you take the optional module 'Practical Training Based Placement Module, you will have the opportunity to complete work placements. Examples of organisations you might work with include: local authorities, industry, businesses, HE institutions, zoos, or  Environmental/ecological consultants.
Learn from an expert teaching team
Special interests include:
Dr Nel Beaumont
-
Individual photo-identification of seals and other animals, and wildlife conservation education
Graham Rowe
- Use of molecular genetic DNA markers to answer ecological and evolutionary questions
Dr Mark Bulling
-
Biodiversity and community structure, and ecosystem functioning across spatial scales
Dr Maren Huck
-
Evolution of mating systems and male care in neotropical primates
Dr Micheal Sweet
-
Coral biology and immune responses to specific diseases
Entry requirements
You will need an undergraduate degree (lower second or above) or equivalent in a relevant subject.
International students should have the above or an international equivalent. If English is not your first language, you will need to hold IELTS 6.0 or above.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£11,200 for the full course*
£1,244 per 20 credits
International
£16,475 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£11,470 for the full course*
£1,274 per 20 credits
International
£18,475 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
All equipment and consumables needed for your experimental/field work are provided by the university, this is subject to the consumables required being costed by you and full approval from your Programme Leader
You will be provided with a laboratory coat and safety glasses as required
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
If not already owned, appropriate footwear for fieldwork such as Wellington/Walking boots - approximate cost is between £10-£100
If not already owned, appropriate outdoor clothing such as a Waterproof jacket and Trousers - approximate cost is between £50-£100
Optional costs not included in your fees
Professional body accreditation from the Institution of Environmental Science
Recommended textbooks - approximate cost is £60
Travel to work experience/placements - cost is dependent on your placement venue of choice
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
Our MSc equips you with a wide range of skills and knowledge in both biological conservation and environmental management. It could pave the way for rewarding roles in habitat management or environmental consultancy, with conservation agencies or with local or national government.
There are also opportunities to move into industry in roles which bridge environmental management with broader conservation issues – so you could pursue a career in areas such as waste management, energy efficiency or recycling.
This programme is an ideal stepping stone to an academic research career too. You could undertake a PhD to advance knowledge in this critically important field.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Environmental Assessment and Control MSc