Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/counselling-psychotherapy-courses/counselling-psychotherapy-bsc-hons-foundation/

Counselling and Psychotherapy (Humanistic Approaches) with Foundation Year BSc (Hons) - Counselling and Psychotherapy - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Counselling and Psychotherapy
Counselling and Psychotherapy (Humanistic Approaches) with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Counselling and Psychotherapy (Humanistic Approaches) with Foundation Year
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
80
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
C84F
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
The best bits
100 hours clinical placement to enable you to register as a counsellor with a regulatory body such as the BACP
Learn from practising counsellors and psychotherapists and experienced lecturers
The opportunity to become more self-aware and experience personal growth
Utilise our specialist facilities to include our counselling suites
Focused humanistic approach throughout the course
Top
20
for student satisfaction
Psychology subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
Top
25
for student satisfaction
Social Work subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
At a time of mental strain on populations, as a counsellor and psychotherapist you will be at the forefront of responding to these societal needs and you will be changing peoples’ lives. This course is more than an academic programme and will transform you academically, professionally and personally.
Academically, this course focuses on enabling students to develop a firm grounding in understanding the humanistic theories of counselling and psychotherapy and to develop core academic skills of critical analysis and reflection. Professional counselling skills will be developed and applied in clinical placement. On a personal level, the programme will be transformable in terms of building self-awareness, confidence and understanding relationships. Those personal benefits are transferable to any relationship or employment which involves people.
On completion of the Foundation Year you will then commence study on the full
BSc (Hons) Counselling and Psychotherapy Principles and Practices degree
.
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You will learn from lecturers who have a wealth of knowledge and experience and who bring their latest thinking to your studies. You will have interactive teaching sessions including lectures, small group seminars, counselling skills workshops and personal development groups. We ensure you have the right level of support to succeed, we are responsive, approachable and empathic in supporting your learning needs.
How you’re assessed
You will be assessed mainly through assignments via essays, posters, presentations and reports. There are no exams on this course.
In addition to direct teaching by faculty staff the University also makes use of blended learning through which students will be able to enhance and progress their learning. Through the university’s online portal, University of Derby Online (UDO), students can access the university virtual learning environment which forms an important part of the delivery of the programme and provides a facility through which tutors can supply lecture notes and presentations, links to learning resources and information and announcements pertinent to studies.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Kathy Humberstone
Programme Leader
Kathy Humberstone
Kathy is a senior lecturer and the programme leader of BSc Counselling and Psychotherapy: Principles and Practices.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
80
A Level
CDD
T Level
Pass (C or above in the core)
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
Additional entry requirements
An
Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service certificate
cleared by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this once you have applied
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
All essential software
Access to materials included in taught areas
DBS check
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Clinical supervision in years 2 and 3 (if not provided by your placement)
Indemnity insurance in years 2 and 3 (if not provided by your placement)
Personal therapy (30 hours over years 2 and 3)
Optional costs not included in your fees
BACP student membership if desired
Continuing professional development: you may wish to undertake additional training courses or attend conferences at your own cost if desired
Printing costs of course materials if hard copies are desired
You may wish to purchase reading materials or e-books
Personal therapy (30 hours over years 2 and 3)
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
With careers advice an integral part of your studies, this course equips you to compete effectively in the graduate careers market. After graduation you’ll have a wide range of options and could progress to roles within health and social care, counselling, psychotherapy and psychology.
This course en
a
bles you to be eligible to register for one of the counselling
a
nd psychother
a
py regul
a
tory bodies such
a
s the B
A
CP or NCPS.
If you would like to take your qualifications to the next level and become a professional counsellor and/or psychotherapist, we offer a full range of postgraduate programmes including accredited MSc courses in
Cognitive Behavioural Psychotherapy
and
Integrative Counselling and Psychotherapy
.
These could pave the way to rewarding counselling and psychotherapy positions within the NHS, schools, colleges and universities, and any organisations which employ therapists as part of their occupational health portfolio. Some of the students who complete our postgraduate programmes also go on to develop their own private practice or advance to research degrees.
However, the transferable skills you gain on the BSc (Hons) Counselling and Psychotherapy (Humanistic Approaches) also mean that you could pursue careers in a wide variety of other professions where excellent people skills and emotional intelligence are valued, including nursing, social work, education, coaching, mental health, human resource management and marketing.
Postgraduate study
This course is also suitable if you wish to study at postgraduate level on courses such as:
MSc Integrative Counselling and Psychotherapy
MA Art Therapy
MA Drama Therapy
MA Dance Movement Therapy
Other post-graduate routes may also include social work, education, youth work and mental health nursing.
Helen's new passion after 20 years
Helen Simpkin was looking for a new challenge after working in finance for over 20 years. She found it in our BSc Counselling and Psychotherapy programme. And our Foundation Year programme gave her a pathway onto the course.
Read Helen's story
Read Helen's story
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Course: Kathy Humberstone (Programme leader)
K.Humberstone@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 592526
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Counselling and Psychotherapy (Humanistic Approaches) BSc (Hons)
Psychology BSc (Hons)
Forensic Psychology BSc (Hons)
Psychology with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Nursing (Mental Health) BSc (Hons)