Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/english-creative-writing-publishing-courses/creative-writing-ma/

Creative Writing MA - English, Creative Writing and Publishing - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
English, Creative Writing and Publishing
Creative Writing MA
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Creative Writing
MA
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
This programme offers you a range of opportunities to learn, research and workshop different approaches to creative writing and critically reflect on your practice.
100% of students said that they were overall satisfied with this course, according to the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey, 2021.
The course will develop your creative writing; be that in prose, poetry, life writing, creative non-fiction, script-writing for films, plays or video games or any combination of the above and more! In addition, we offer industry-focused pathways:
Creative Writing for Gaming focuses on script and narrative design in a variety of games (such as role playing games and video games)
Creative Writing with Publishing enables students to work on book production by taking modules from our MA in Publishing.
The degree has a strong focus on employability. Students get the opportunity to pitch their work to a literary agent. Plus they receive advice from experienced writers including guidance on contracts and tax, the business of publishing and how to run a workshop.
The course gives all students the opportunity to undertake arranged work experience in the arts or in communication. In 2022/2023, students were given the opportunity to work on the prestigious Writer’s Conference with the organisation Writing East Midlands. Graduates leave this MA with a portfolio of their own writing, prepared for a career as arts professionals or for progression to doctoral level study and teaching.
In 2019/20, we had talks from twenty guest speakers and students took part in writing retreats, each with a guest lecture on writing and publishing. Our students have learnt from poets and novelists, literary agents and established screenwriters. In recent years we have had guest lectures by
Dan Abnett
,
Meg Clothier
,
Sarah Dunnakey
,
Tom James
,
Momtaza Mehri
,
Natalie Olah
,
JT Welsch
and
James Wills
.
"The programme continues to provide students with the opportunity to engage in modules that are at once challenging and nurturing, and to develop their skills as writers across a wide range of contexts and in close communication with a clearly dedicated team of staff. The programme’s outlook is striking for its combined emphasis on the practical real-world aspects of being a writer and the possibilities of experiment, conceptual and theoretical interrogation, and creative risk-taking."
—Dr Honor Gavin, External Examiner Report 2020.
Take a look at what our staff and students had to say about Creative Writing at Derby:
View Creative Writing video video transcript
100
%
overall satisfaction
MA Creative Writing, Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2021
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
Core Modules
The programme offers the flexibility to study in more than one writing form or genre. The teaching method encourages a gradual specialisation over the three trimesters. You participate in workshops where you read and respond both to published work and the work of peers. You also work with supervisors on an individual basis and in small groups. In the summer you work on a significant writing project for your dissertation.
In the autumn trimester everyone takes:
Writing Workshop (20 credits)
Working as a Writer (20 credits)
Editorial and Editing (20 credits)
In the spring trimester your module choice depends on your pathway. Everyone takes:
Writing Apprenticeship (20 credits)
Writing Commission (20 credits)
In the summer trimester everyone takes:
Independent Project (60 credits)
Pathway Modules
The MA Creative Writing has a core programme (the MA Creative Writing) and two pathway awards: Gaming and Publishing. Each pathway has its own module in the Spring trimester:
What is the Imagination For? for MA Creative Writing
Writing for Games for MA Creative Writing (for Gaming)
Magazine Publishing for MA Creative Writing (with Publishing)
The teaching takes a variety of forms, preparing you for the creative, intellectual and practical challenges of working as a writer You are taught by lectures, tutor-led seminars and workshops, where students reflect on critical approaches to literature or create and share work in response to briefs and exercises. Guest speakers enrich student experience by adding their knowledge and insights to industry-focused modules.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
The teaching takes a variety of forms, preparing you for the creative, intellectual and practical challenges of working as a writer You are taught by lectures, tutor-led seminars and workshops, where students reflect on critical approaches to literature or create and share work in response to briefs and exercises. Guest speakers enrich student experience by adding their knowledge and insights to industry-focused modules.
Your teaching staff
Dr Christos Callow
Jr
is a scriptwriter, theatre maker and researcher, and the artistic director of the contemporary Greek and science-fiction theatre company Cyborphic. The focus of his own writing practice is science fiction, utopian/dystopian literature and science fiction theatre.
Dr Matthew Cheeseman
is a novelist. He works across fiction and non-fiction, drawing on critical theory and cultural studies, often collaborating with others to create books and pamphlets. He runs the small press Spirit Duplicator and loves making things.
Matthew Clegg
is a narrative and lyric poet and performer. His creative practice touches on edge-land landscapes, human predicaments (especially the marginalised or disenfranchised), and the relationship between voice, personae, and place. His influences are catholic, including the classics in translation, Romantic, Modernist and contemporary poetry, New Nature Writing, and Psychogeography.
Dr Simon Heywood
is a novelist and storyteller. He holds a PhD on contemporary storytelling from Sheffield University’s National Centre for English Cultural Tradition. He is the author of 'The Legend of Vortigern' (History Press, 2012) and 'South Yorkshire Folktales' (with Damien Barker, History Press 2014). He has toured nationally and internationally in live and contemporary storytelling, and is currently engaged in original research on modern and historical Jewish storytelling and oral tradition.
Dr Moy McCrory
is a short story writer and creative writing researcher. She is interested in Irish writing with special attention to the role of women within the Irish diaspora. She has also collaborated on a number of graphic novels.
Who will teach you
Dr Christos Callow Jr
Programme Leader
Dr Christos Callow Jr
As a Lecturer in Creative & Professional Writing, Dr Christos Callow teaches scriptwriting BA modules and supervises creative writing MA students via creative workshops, seminars and lectures.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
The entry requirement to this programme is a good honours degree (1st or 2:1) in any subject, or its international equivalent. Applications may be considered if you have a 2:2 honours degree and/or can demonstrate significant experience with creative writing or related industry experience or aptitude. You are expected to send a small sample of your writing, 1,000 words maximum along with your application,
The university welcomes applications from every sector of society. Depending on your qualifications, experience and your writing sample, you may be invited to attend an informal interview before being offered a place. The interview provides an opportunity to discuss the course, and what will be expected of you during it.
While a good, competent all-round standard of English is expected, if English is not your first language you will need to have passed the International English Language Teaching System (IELTS) at the overall level IELTS 6.5, including a minimum score of 5.5 in each test category. (Where appropriate the university’s International Admissions office can give further details, including information regarding approved IELTS test centres.) The English language qualification required by this programme is at a higher level than that required for other university programmes due to the advanced level required to produce creative writing at MA level.
Interview information
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Important information
When applying you will be required to provide a short sample of your writing. This will be an example of your original writing in any form or genre, maximum 1000 words (or 3 A4 pages for scripts and poems). You may have completed this work for your BA or for any other purpose or it may have been published. Please attach this as part of your supporting documents.
Careers
Our programme is unique in being orientated towards your future as a writer whilst pushing you creatively and conceptually. Beyond working as a writer and an arts professional, you can consider several other options, such as freelancing or setting us a business in the arts, and your tutors and the University Careers and Employment Service will be happy to explore these with you. The MA Creative Writing will prepare you for a wide variety of roles and positions while the Careers and Employment Service will advise you on all of these possibilities. The University also offers business incubation units for graduates.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Publishing MA
Creative Writing and Publishing BA (Hons)