Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/therapeutic-arts-courses/creative-expressive-arts-health-wellbeing-ba-hons-foundation-year/

Creative Expressive Arts, Health and Wellbeing with Foundation Year BA (Hons) - Therapeutic Arts - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Therapeutic Arts
Creative Expressive Arts, Health and Wellbeing with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Creative Expressive Arts, Health, and Wellbeing with Foundation Year
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 year
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
W192
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road and Britannia Mill, Derby Campus
Keen to use the arts in a positive and therapeutic way with others? Achieve your ambitions by studying on this innovative four year course which includes a Foundation Year.
Our Foundation Year provides you with a firm grounding in the skills and knowledge you need and introduces you to the subject area; enabling you to achieve your honours degree in four years
Gain exciting practical experience through completing work placements with our partner organisations
Advance to one of our acclaimed masters degrees if you would like to register and go into practice as an arts therapist
The Foundation Year course leads on to the full Creative Expressive Arts, Health, and Wellbeing
If the arts have played a vital role in your own personal development, why not harness your creativity to make a difference in other peoples’ lives? Our pioneering BA (Hons) Creative Expressive Arts, Health, and Wellbeing with Foundation Year shows you how.
Beginning with a Foundation Year
Starting at foundation level is ideal if it has been a while since you were in formal education; are planning a career change; would benefit from a more gradual introduction to university level study; or do not meet the entry requirements to join our three-year honours degree directly.
It gives you an insight into the therapeutic arts and working with people, as well as supporting you to develop the skills you need to achieve your goals.
On completion of the Foundation Year you will then commence study on the full
BA (Hons) Creative Expressive Arts, Health and Wellbeing
degree.
Top
5
for student satisfaction
Counselling, Psychotherapy & Occupational Therapy subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
Top
10
for assessment and feedback
Counselling, Psychotherapy & Occupational - National Student Survey 2024
Top
15
for Counselling, Psychotherapy and Occupational Therapy
Complete University Guide 2025
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
How Rachael is using music to help people
Find out why studying Therapeutic Arts at Derby was the right choice for Rachael who wanted to focus on the therapeutic and practical use of  music.
Read Rachael's story
Read Rachael's story
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
You’ll study a selection of modules such as:
Foundation Year
Study Skills
Health, Wellbeing and Creativity
Introduction to a Recovery Model for Mental Health
Preparation for Professional Practice
Communication Skills
Anti Discriminatory Practice
Public Health Principles
Skills for Interprofessional Practice
If you don’t have either English or Maths GCSE, you will need to substitute one or two of the above for a module in English and/or Maths.
Year one
The Healthy Practitioner
Human Development and Play
Working Creatively with Groups
Arts, Culture and Wellbeing
The Creative Self
Year two
The Developing Practitioner
Concept of Self
Arts for Health Research Methods
Arts for Health
Group Work for Diverse Population
Year three
The Emerging Practitioner
The Professional Self
Group Work in Community Extended Placement
Independent Scholarship
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
The course balances classroom-based theory sessions in the form of lectures, seminars, tutorials, and exercises with practical sessions involving studio, performance, and exhibition work. The focus is on developing your transferable skills so that you can adapt to varied and changing circumstances. Work-based learning and placements are a key part of your learning experience too, allowing you to develop your skills in working with people of differing ages, identities, backgrounds, and abilities.
Throughout the course, you have access to guidance and advice from a personal academic tutor, and will also benefit from practice-focussed support sessions for academic skills, self-care, and employability.
How you are assessed
During your foundation year you will be assessed mainly by coursework, and with some in-class tests.
For the remainder of your studies you'll be assessed in a variety of ways to help you develop a compelling skill-base. These include academic papers, reflective essays, exhibitions, performances, reflective journals and diaries, videos, and production projects. In some assessments, you will be able to choose how you are assessed, allowing you to work with your strengths.
Who you will meet
You will learn from highly experienced academics who are committed to supporting your success. All specialists in their field, they include active researchers, authors, Arts and Health Practitioners and Community Artists, qualified Arts Therapists, Musicians, Composers, Performers, and professional artists, all with outstanding professional networks. We pride ourselves on offering a supportive and engaging learning environment.
The team includes
Dave Home
.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study.
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 24, Pass: 15
Offers will be made initially based on your application, including predicted grades and/or grades you have already achieved. You may be given the opportunity, within your offer letter, to submit a portfolio. If you submit a strong portfolio we will make you an unconditional offer, to reflect the quality of your work and your potential.
Additional entry requirements
Portfolio: Recommended -
view portfolio details
An
Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service certificate
cleared by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this once you have applied
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Essential equipment for all practical workshops (e.g art materials and tools, musical instruments, drama props)
DBS Check approx £50
The programme uses Adobe Creative Suite which is installed on all Macs in MS102 and MS012 at Markeaton Street and students are provided with an individual Adobe Creative Cloud subscription for home use
To support their professional and skills development, students are provided with a subscription to LinkedIn Learning which offers over 13,000 courses and tutorials, including professional accreditations, in a wide range of creative, business & technology disciplines
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Students may purchase additional resources for placement activities dependent on the nature of what they choose to deliver
Students will need their own waterproofs, wellies etc for the environmental sculpture event
Students may wish to purchase specific props and/or outfits for performances
Art materials beyond those supplied for specialist teaching e.g. large volumes of clay, large canvases and specialist paint/brushes, textiles/fabrics - especially for final year work
Students are expended to fund-raise to finance the production of the booklet supporting their final exhibition or performance, and refreshments for the opening evening
Students with specialist musical instruments beyond those available in the University will need to bring their own instruments
Optional costs not included in your fees
Option to purchase personal copies of textbooks
Students may opt to engage in international trips and activities that are not fully funded, though bursaries may be available
Optional outings and trips will also require self-funding
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
You’ll develop transferable skills which enable you to work creatively with people in a range of different settings, drawing on your knowledge of art, dance, drama or music.
Our graduates have gone on to work in community arts, voluntary organisations, health, education and the corporate sector. Some have set up their own businesses.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Creative Expressive Arts, Health and Wellbeing BA (Hons)
Psychology BSc (Hons)
Dance Movement Psychotherapy MA
Dramatherapy MA
Art Therapy MA