Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/english-creative-writing-publishing-courses/creative-writing-publishing-ba-hons-foundation/

Creative Writing and Publishing with Foundation Year BA (Hons) - English, Creative Writing and Publishing - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
English, Creative Writing and Publishing
Creative Writing and Publishing with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Creative Writing and Publishing with Foundation Year
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
W801
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this subject as a 2 year foundation degree (FdA).
View foundation degree option
View foundation degree option
Top
5
for student experience
Creative Writing - Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Top
5
for assessment and feedback
Creative Writing - National Student Survey 2024
Top
10
for academic support
Creative Writing - National Student Survey 2024
Top
10
for teaching quality
Creative Writing - Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Top
15
for graduate prospects
Creative Writing - Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Top
25
for student satisfaction
Creative Writing -  Complete University Guide 2025
Top
25
for teaching
Creative Writing - National Student Survey 2024
The highlights
Learn the art, craft and processes of writing fiction and non-fiction; we'll cover writing for books, magazines, and digital content
Understand how today's publishing industry works and gain the skills you need to get your work — or the work of others — to market
Prepare for any career in the literary world, whether you aspire to be a writer or to work in the publishing industry, including roles in editorial, design, production, sales, marketing, publicity and more
Tailor your degree to suit your needs and aspirations, with the choice of a wide range of optional modules.
The world needs writers and publishers
The UK market for written information and creative content of all types is of enormous significance to cultural and political life, as well as to economic growth. However, we live in a fast-changing society where consumers are bombarded with fake news and a flood of information daily. This means that carefully curated and diverse content is more important than ever.
The publishing industry is rapidly adapting to this evolving digital marketplace. It is a resilient, creative and global industry that continues to grow year-on-year. To do so, it relies on professionals who are commercially and digitally aware, and who feel passionate about books, writing and reading. Could that be you?
We blend the creative and the commercial
In today's publishing industry, authors, editors, literary agents and other professionals need to collaborate with each other to an unprecedented degree. If they have an understanding of each other’s roles and priorities, they can do this well. That’s why this course looks at the industry from both the perspective of the writer and the perspective of the publishing professional.
This gives you a distinct advantage in the workplace; if you want to be a writer, we’ll ensure you  understand the marketplace for your work and the practicalities of getting it published, including self-publishing or working with literary agents. Equally, if you're an aspiring publishing professional, we’ll give you valuable insight into the creative processes, aspirations and concerns of authors, alongside the communications skills that are vital for any publishing role.
"I have been grateful to have dynamic lecturers who are supportive and knowledgeable about all aspects related to this creative industry. They make the learning process accessible and engaging. The lecturers have always challenged me to produce my best work and allowed me to develop a wide range of skills which will be invaluable in my career after graduation. The programme provides a range of modules which will open many different opportunities for me."
Fred Gough, Writing and Publishing Student
Choose your focus
This Creative Writing and Publishing degree gives you the opportunity to learn about every aspect of the publishing process: from developing ideas, to writing, editing and typesetting, as well as designing, marketing, and selling written work.
In the first year, everyone takes the same modules because these cover critical skills and knowledge. In years two and three you can tailor the course to suit your interests with our wide range of optional modules, including:
writing and publishing for: non-fiction, short fiction, children and young adults, or gaming
designing and producing content
self-publishing
poetry and language
power, passion and persuasion
teaching English literature and language
business skills for the creative industries
the legal aspects of writing and publishing, and many others.
Expertise to inspire you
We have a vibrant programme of guest lectures, which are delivered by leading novelists, poets, scriptwriters, editors, publishers, agents and others. Previous speakers have included: the BAFTA award-winning script writer Neil McKay; poets and authors such as Momtaza Mehri, Bernard O'Donoghue and Dan Abnett; professionals from Penguin Random House, Bloomsbury, HarperCollins, Amazon, and The Southbank Centre in London. Our tutors themselves are experienced writers and publishing professionals, with a network of industry connections.
Practical and applied
This course includes writing workshops and work-based projects with employers, to help you hone and apply your skills. You might be producing magazines and anthologies of student work, creating interactive eBooks, or crafting industry-standard TV and film scripts. By the end of your studies, you will have a portfolio of professionally developed and presented work to show to a potential employer.
We also encourage you gain as much experience of  the industry as you can. You can use our networks across the creative and cultural sector to find opportunities for mentoring, internships, placements and volunteering.
We take part in NaNoWriMo — a programme for young writers, which offers great tools, resources and access to a supportive community.
"Studying Writing and Publishing at Derby is a decision I will never regret. The lecturers are fantastic people, supportive and encouraging; our discussions in class were simulating and insightful. I particularly enjoyed utilising the book production, commissioning, and editorial skills I had gained while on the course, to self-publish two eBooks as part of my major publishing project."
Oliver Tipple, Writing and Publishing Student
Study in America
If you want to broaden your horizons and experience life in another country, you can choose to spend part of your second year studying at one of our partner universities in America. They are:
Eastern Michigan University
Keene State College in New Hampshire
Longwood University in Virginia
Indiana University — Purdue University Indianapolis.
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Creative Writing and Publishing - your questions answered
In the below video, Programme Leader Cat Mitchell answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Creative Writing and Publishing at the University of Derby.
View Creative Writing and Publishing - your questions answered! video transcript
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Foundation Year
Literature
Study
s
kills
Creative
P
roject
Culture and
I
deas
History
Political
S
tudies
Year 1
Introduction to Creative Writing and Publishing
Markets, Media and Audiences
The Workshop
Editorial
Writing and Publishing: Fiction
The Story
Year 2
Core modules:
Copy-editing for Writers and Editors
Writing and Publishing: Children and Young Adults
Optional modules:
Writing and Publishing: Non-fiction
Design and Production
Language and the Poetic
Short Fiction
Development
I
Writing and Publishing: Gaming
Year 3
Core modules:
Independent study
in Writing and Publishing
Professional Development
Optional modules:
Development II
The Written World in the Twenty-first Century
Genre
Self-publishing
Language and the Poetic II
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
English language requirements
IELTS: 7.0 (with at least 6.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Your fees include any mandatory study visits and some social events
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Minimal printing costs starting at 5p per sheet
Optional costs not included in your fees
Some social events
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Chat to our students
−