Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/journalism-courses/creative-and-cultural-industries-ma/

Creative and Cultural Industries MA - Journalism - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Journalism
Creative and Cultural Industries MA
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Creative and Cultural Industries
MA
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 Year,  Part-time: 2 Years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
The highlights
For graduates seeking to enter the exciting and dynamic world of the creative and cultural industries, this postgraduate programme is designed to equip you with the skills required for a successful career in the twenty-first-century industry.
This unique programme brings together cross-disciplinary expertise and knowledge in creative thinking, business, art, heritage, media and journalism.
You will develop your knowledge and skills for leading the cultural and creative institutions of the future. This programme is offered on campus and makes excellent use of the Midlands as a cultural region where you will benefit from established relationships with organisations in cultural heritage, festivals and advertising.
Take advantage of the opportunity to work collaboratively with a creative sector partner on your final project. Working with industry will increase your knowledge of how organisations operate and the challenges they face and enhance your employability skills.
The programme also provides the foundation for you to develop a deeper academic engagement with creative and cultural industries which could lead to further study at MPhil or PhD level.
How you will be supported
The Journalism team at the University of Derby has extensive links with media companies, individual journalists, and other industry organisations such as regulators and societies (including; Reach PLC, Derby Book Festival, Derby Museums, the Society of Editors and the British Society of Magazine Editors). In addition to this, the Creative Arts team have a plethora of contacts in terms of galleries and exhibition organisers.
The
CivicLab
, which is based at the University of Derby, also offers another opportunity to engage with organisations that work with the University. All of these contacts and partnerships provide the opportunity for you to collaborate with an external arts, media or heritage organisation such as the visual arts charity, Artcore, Derby Theatre or Derby Museums.
You'll be supported in the following ways:
An approachable team who are committed to regular one-to-one tutorial support, whether relating to research supervision, academic performance, or future professional aspirations
Our team have a keen focus on the ever-changing process and contexts of creative and cultural industries, ensuring you will graduate with an up-to-date understanding of media and audiences
You will be taught in our purpose-built Journalism facilities which include radio studios, a TV Studio, video editing suites, Mac suites and a newsroom featuring the latest software
You will be exposed to engagement with industry guests who will share their experiences to ensure your learning is grounded in current media practice
Choose your specialism
This Masters will equip you with the practical and intellectual skills to prosper in a world which requires the exercise of initiative and personal responsibility, along with the ability to make decisions in complex and unpredictable situations.
You can choose which sector to concentrate upon and specialise in one topic. You'll select your specialism during the course induction phase and choose from:
Curation and Conservation in the Digital Age
Film and Documentary Production
Publishing
Freelancing
Audience Studies
If you want to work in various roles within the creative and cultural industries, this course provides opportunities to dive deeply into in-demand specialist areas while also exploring the relevant theoretical, legal, and ethical discussions.
This course also provides scope for you to critically engage with significant intellectual developments within the field of creative and cultural industries and reflect on the practical as well as the more theoretical dimensions of the field.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You will study modules such as:
Core modules
CCI Management
Creative Collaborative Project
Project Modelling and Methods
Optional modules
Practical Content Production
Curation and Conservation in the Digital Age
Audiences and Audience Development
Freelancing
Digital Skills
Heritage Management, Funding and Marketing
Marketing Sales Modern Publishing
Magazine Publishing
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
We employ a range of approaches to enable your learning. These include lectures, seminars, tutorials and debates, alongside workshops and close collaboration with the media industry and professional practitioners. There is also an emphasis on self-directed study which reflects the greater importance accorded to autonomous learning at postgraduate level.
We have a blended learning strategy. This means that, in addition to face-to-face teaching, all modules will have support from the University’s virtual learning environment. This provides facilities for your tutors to upload lecture recordings and presentations, create links to useful electronic resources and to issue class announcements. We also use Course Resources to participate in discussion groups and share files with fellow students on group assignments.
How you are assessed
Depending on optional module choice, you may be expected to undertake a broad range of assessment, such as: essays; reports that may require the critical integration of both qualitative and quantitative data; oral presentations; and critical reflection. In the more practical modules, you will create content using a variety of platforms and technology for your assessments – this practical work is usually combined with academic essays to contextualise and reflect on the work produced.
Who will teach you
Beth Wood
Programme Leader
Beth Wood
Beth is a lecturer in Journalism and Programme Leader for the MA Creative and Cultural Industries
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You will need a 2:1 undergraduate degree or relevant experience and a strong interest in creative arts is recommended. We can consider a 2:2 undergraduate degree with relevant professional experience if you are seeking to transition into the creative and cultural sectors or seeking career advancement or a career change through specialised additional skills.
English language skills
If English is not your first language you will need to have passed the International English Language Teaching System (IELTS) at the overall level IELTS 6.5, including a minimum score of 5.5 in each test category. Where appropriate, the university’s International Admissions office can give further details, including information regarding approved IELTS test centres.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
This is a stimulating and varied course that equips graduates for a wide range of post-programme opportunities and careers in the creative and cultural industries sectors.
You will develop management and leadership skills along with other key transferable skills such as digital and communication skills. The self-guided nature of much of your work will make you a valuable asset in the creative and cultural media industries either for an organisation or freelance.
You will be supported to develop your understanding of appropriate research methodologies and the ability to deploy a range of established techniques of research and enquiry in both the academic and media industry arenas. This means you’ll be in an ideal position to use this Masters as a starting point for continued research, either as a stepping-stone to MPhil or Doctoral study or by means of integrating your research skills into a range of professional applications and careers.
The creative and cultural industries are defined as encompassing the following subsectors:
Advertising and marketing
Architecture
Crafts
Design and designer fashion
Film, TV, video, radio and photography
Publishing
Museums, Galleries and Libraries
Music, performing and visual arts
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Journalism MA