Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/therapeutic-arts-courses/creative-expressive-arts-health-practice-marts-hons/

Creative Expressive Arts and Health Practice MArts (Hons) - Therapeutic Arts - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Therapeutic Arts
Creative Expressive Arts and Health Practice MArts (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Creative Expressive Arts and Health Practice
MArts (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years,  Part-time: 7 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 per year
(2024/25)
UCAS points
112-120
(September 2024 entry)
UCAS code
W193
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road and Britannia Mill, Derby Campus
Learn how to use the arts as a tool to work with others in a positive and therapeutic way on this innovative course.
Develop your skills in the applied arts as an Arts & Health Practitioner
Develop professional and personal skills for fulfilling careers in a wide range of arts, health, social care, and educational settings
Gain exciting practical experience through work-based learning and placements with our partner organisations in the community.
The course will give you the opportunity to develop a range of specific and transferable skills that are applicable in a wide range of settings where you will work with people using the arts; or in contexts where engaging with people is a focus; whether this is in employment or further study. You will learn with and from tutors who are experienced practitioners and researchers in the field; as well as our community partners, who will offer a real-world experience, helping you to develop your employability.
Through this integrated masters course you’ll progress towards autonomous working as a professional, as you undertake an individual piece of extended scholarship and a challenging, in-depth project in community. Both are supported through tutorials with academic members of staff at the University.
Your independent work in these areas will be underpinned by in-depth exploration of how approaches to research and research skills are applied in a range of contexts for arts and health practice. Additionally, you will develop skills in applying creative approaches in coaching and mentoring others and facilitating as well as participating in reflective practice.
Take a tour of our facilities
View Therapeutic Arts - virtual tour video transcript
If the arts have played a vital role in your own personal development, why not harness your creativity to make a difference in other people’s lives?
This programme offers you opportunities to develop your skills and express yourself in the art form of your choice through specialist studio sessions, performances and exhibition work. Playful exploration of all art forms will empower you in applying the arts as a tool when working with others to promote physical and emotional wellbeing.
We explore how the arts and creativity can be applied therapeutically in community, voluntary, health, educational, and corporate settings. We also look at different therapeutic principles and the meanings of health and illness in the context of historical, societal, and cultural values, and the role of the arts in meeting personal and community goals and needs.
Real-world learning in action
At every level of study, we offer exciting opportunities for you to put your skills into practice – and make more informed decisions about your future career path – through work placements and community projects.
Thanks to our thriving partnerships, you will have opportunities to work in our local community at every stage of study, with an extended period of placement at Level 7. You could gain experience with arts groups, hospitals, hospices, schools, charities, or organisations supporting adults and children with disabilities. This is a fantastic opportunity to work creatively using multiple art forms to make a difference to the lives of your participants.
Many of our students take part in collaborative projects in the wider community and have devised and led drama sessions for prison inmates; run creative arts workshops for people with brain injuries; and toured schools with programmes aimed at tackling bullying and peer pressure.
Gain ‘career-ready’ skills
You will undertake a substantial amount of groupwork where you can reflect on your own personal development, awareness, and communication skills. You will also also gain experience of leadership, coaching, and group processes which will be invaluable in your future career.
There are opportunities for you to learn with, and from, students from other disciplines. This will prepare you to work in a multi-professional and multi-disciplinary teams after graduation, and ensure the best possible outcomes for your clients and service users.
An inspiring study experience
You will hone your skills in our superb
facilities
, including dedicated art, dance, drama, and music studios for therapeutic arts.
We offer guest lectures by leading professionals in the field, and you will also take part in environmental, site-specific arts workshops, as part of the ‘Big Wood’ project, based on the outskirts of Derby, to help you think beyond studio spaces.
Pursue your personal interests
Your course will culminate in an Independent study which allows you to explore areas of your own choosing within the applied arts & health subject area, whilst also offering a platform to demonstrate your academic and/or creative talents to potential employers.
This will be a piece of empirical research (where you gather and analyse data) where you might choose to focus on a topic of interest in the community or to conduct a personal Body of Work.
Mindfulness movement
Senior Lecturer Dave Home travelled around the world enriching lives beyond the classroom.
Follow Dave's journey
Follow Dave's journey
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
You'll study modules such as:
Stage one
The Healthy Practitioner
Human Development and Play
Working Creatively with Groups
Arts, Culture and Wellbeing
The Creative Self
Stage two
The Developing Practitioner
Concept of Self
Arts for Health
Arts for Health Research Methods
Group Work with Diverse Population
Stage three
Groupwork in Community Placement
The Emerging Practitioner
The Professional Self
Creative Mentoring and Reflective Practice
Researching, Monitoring and Evaluating Practice
Stage four
Advanced Arts and Health Practice
The Professional Practitioner
Arts and Health Independent Scholarship
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
The course balances classroom-based theory with practical sessions involving studio, performance and exhibition work. The focus is on developing your transferable skills so that you can adapt to varied and changing circumstances.
Our diverse range of teaching and learning strategies are all intended to support you as a learner in developing your skills and understanding of the potential of the arts and creativity in promoting human lifelong development, health and wellbeing. Additionally, these approaches encourage you to refine and further develop your expertise as an artist, whilst applying and offering critical consideration of relevant theories.
The taught components of the curriculum are designed to allow you to take responsibility for your own learning; with self-awareness and reflection as central to your development. You are invited to participate in a range of learning activities that help you to develop your academic and practical skills, which you will then apply in a real-world context, working in community settings in placements. You are encouraged throughout to recognise and promote your skills and strengths, as well as exploring areas that you wish to develop. A diverse range of activities is on offer, to enable you in developing the wide range of skills, knowledge and understanding that you will need in order to adapt to the changing landscape of practice.
Throughout the course, you have access to guidance and advice from a personal tutor and will also benefit from academic skills sessions.
How you are assessed
You’ll be assessed in many ways to help you develop a compelling variety of skills. These include essays, exhibitions, performances, reflective journals and diaries, videos and production projects.
You will complete two extended pieces of critical writing. There is an option of reflective writing or a professional discussion, plus a critical report along with a research proposal.
We support you to view assessment as an additional learning opportunity, with assessments that are selected to reflect real-world practice and ensure you have adequate learning in working with people to be a safe and effective practitioner.
Who you will meet
You'll learn from highly experienced teachers who are committed to your success. All specialists in their field, they include active researchers, authors and industry practitioners with outstanding professional networks. We pride ourselves on offering a supportive and engaging learning environment.
The team includes
Dave Home
.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
David  Home
Programme Leader
David  Home
David is a senior lecturer with the Therapeutic Arts team. This means that he can use his experience as an acupuncturist and oriental health practitioner to give creative arts students fresh perspectives on the use of the arts to enhan...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2024 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2024 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112-120
A Level
BBB-BBC (No subject specific requirements at A-level or equivalent, however applicants need to demonstrate proficiency in the arts)
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
At least five GCSEs (or equivalent) including English at grade 4/C or above
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
Offers will be made initially based on your application, including predicted grades and/or grades you have already achieved. You may be given the opportunity, within your offer letter, to submit a portfolio. If you submit a strong portfolio we will make you an unconditional offer, to reflect the quality of your work and your potential.
Additional entry requirements
Portfolio: Recommended -
view portfolio details
An
Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service certificate
cleared by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this once you have applied
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2024/25
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
£1,155 per 20 credit module
International
£14,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Essential equipment for all practical workshops (e.g art materials and tools, musical instruments and drama props)
DBS check
The programme uses Adobe Creative Suite which is installed on all Macs in MS102 and MS012 at Markeaton Street and students are provided with an individual Adobe Creative Cloud subscription for home use
To support their professional and skills development, students are provided with a subscription to LinkedIn Learning which offers over 13,000 courses and tutorials, including professional accreditations, in a wide range of creative, business & technology disciplines
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Students may purchase additional resources for placement activities, dependent on the nature of what they choose to deliver
Students will need their own waterproofs, wellies etc for the environmental sculpture event
Students may wish to purchase specific props and/or outfits for performances
Art materials beyond those supplied for specialist teaching e.g. large volumes of clay, large canvases and specialist paint/brushes, textiles/fabrics - especially for final year work
Students are expected to fund-raise to finance the production of the booklet supporting their final exhibition or performance, and refreshments for the opening evening
Students with specialist musical instruments beyond those available in the University
Optional costs not included in your fees
Students may opt to engage in international trips and activities that are not fully funded, though bursaries may be available
Optional outings and trips will also require self-funding
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
This course is not currently accepting applications. Please check back at a later date.
Careers
You’ll develop transferable skills which enable you to work creatively with people in a range of different settings, drawing on your knowledge of art, dance, drama or music.
Graduates from our BA (Hons) Creative Expressive Arts, Health and Wellbeing course have gone on to work in community arts, voluntary organisations, health, education and the corporate sector. Some have set up their own businesses.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
This is a new course so the data displayed via Discover Uni is for students studying in another subject area.
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Creative Expressive Arts, Health and Wellbeing BA (Hons)
Art Therapy MA
Dramatherapy MA
Music Therapy MA
Dance Movement Psychotherapy MA