Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/criminology-courses/criminology-sociology-ba-hons/

Criminology and Sociology BA (Hons) - Criminology - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Criminology
Criminology and Sociology BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Criminology and Sociology
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
L311
Start date
September
Location
One Friar Gate Square, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
The highlights
Explore the connection between crime and society, and understand how you can make a difference
Apply your knowledge to real-life issues through our Social Justice Hub
Immerse yourself in the complexities and challenges of the environments in which offenders and victims of crime are made
You'll have the chance to develop your research skills and applying them to real world, working situations
A need for change
The Covid-19 pandemic and national lockdowns have highlighted the social and economic factors that impact crime numbers and types. Anti-social behaviour and drug offences have risen, with overall crime rates remaining higher in areas facing poverty and low educational attainment.
This course seeks to address these differences and find community-based solutions that will reduce criminality.
Why Criminology and Sociology?
Combining insights from both these disciplines will give you a deep understanding of what shapes people’s behaviour, beliefs and attitudes. You’ll explore the reasons why people commit crime and the social factors at play, including inequality, prejudice and substance abuse.
You’ll also look at the impact that crime has on both local communities and wider society. And you’ll apply your learning to help make a difference with local communities.
This course could open up career opportunities to work for or with national or local government, the charity sector, the voluntary sector, social or health services.
Real-world impact
This is a highly relevant degree that tackles current issues head-on. We’ll help you develop strong research and analytical skills to understand and evaluate criminal behaviour and responses to it.
You’ll work with local and national community organisations on live briefs, offering research and solutions to the key issues they deal with.
Study visits and fieldtrips will give you intriguing insights into how organisations work. These could include visits to courts, prisons, police forces and youth offender training centres.
Global thinking
Global perspectives are an integral part of our Criminology and Social Sciences courses. Exploring how other countries approach criminal justice and social issues is key to learning how we can make positive changes moving forward.
Past students have had opportunities to go on field trips that focus on specific aspects of the course, such as conflict resolution.
In your third year, there may be an opportunity to go on study trips to such places as the International Criminal Court to bring your learning to life.
Expert teaching
You’ll learn from a team with a wealth of knowledge; these include researchers, police officers, sociologists and criminologists. Many are still actively practising, which helps you keep up to date with contemporary issues.
As a BA (Hons) Criminology and Sociology student, you can take part in regular departmental research seminars delivered by leading professionals and academics from other institutions. You’ll also have the chance to meet influential leaders in the profession. Our regular programme of guest speakers keeps you in tune with the latest developments in policy and practice. Previous guest speakers include crown court judges, police investigators and professionals from the youth justice practice.
Research projects cover everything from drug use, hate crime and human trafficking to extremism and counter-terrorism, organised crime and conspiracy theories. So your teaching will be informed by the latest thinking in this field, and you may have the chance to get involved yourself.
Where you'll study
You’ll be based on the Derby Campus at One Friar Gate Square. Offering the perfect environment for innovative and engaging teaching, it includes well-resourced lecture theatres, seminar rooms, and social learning spaces.
You will study alongside our Law, Policing and Social Sciences students, sharing knowledge and expertise. You’ll gain practical experience using our first-rate facilities including a replica crown court and police custody suite, complete with interview rooms and cell.
The Gateway to Your Legal Career
Our modern, iconic building offers state-of-the-art facilities like a replica Crown Court and Custody Suite. Just a short walk from the city centre, One Friar Gate Square is designed to elevate your academic journey.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You’ll learn through a combination of:
lectures
tutorials
group work
independent learning
How you are assessed
Assessment is via a stimulating mix of:
coursework
portfolios
individual and group projects/presentations
examinations
Who you’ll meet
You’ll be taught by our team of engaging, passionate and inspiring subject experts. We also offer a high level of support to students, including a unique personal tutor system to help steer your academic and professional development.
The team includes:
Andrew Wilson
David Patton
Helen Brocklehurst
Rachel Rafferty
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Andrew Fergus Wilson
Programme Leader
Dr Andrew Fergus Wilson
Andrew is an active lecturer and researcher. He is committed to developing students aspirational horizons whilst producing first class research in the areas of nationalism and marginal beliefs.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
Alternative entry qualifications
The University of Derby in collaboration with Nottinghamshire Police and Derbyshire Constabulary run the police cadet scheme resulting in the Foundation in Policing qualification. On successful completion of the Foundation in Policing, applicants applying for this course will qualify for entry.
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
DBS check if required for research purposes
Local trips to visit criminal justice and other relevant organisations (eg courts, police stations)
Access to online learning materials
A study trip may be offered if applicable and appropriate
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
BA (Hons) Criminology and Sociology provides an excellent basis for developing careers in local or national government, in organisations working towards social justice in a variety of contexts, or in professional settings concerned with conflict resolution or security and risk assessment. Alternatively, students can choose to pursue careers in the criminal justice sector: in policing, prisons, probation as well as private sector companies that operate in the sector.
Opportunities for graduates may also be available in areas such as housing, family services, youth work, or other aspects of social care. Graduates should also consider exploring prospective careers in health care planning and public health engagement. The critical insights and broad perspectives offered through the course means that we would hope students would be able to choose to work in service delivery, management, or strategic planning roles.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
This is a new course so the data displayed via Discover Uni is for students studying in another subject area.
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Criminology BSc (Hons)
Sociology BA (Hons)