Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/criminology-courses/criminology-bsc-hons-foundation/

Criminology with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)  - Criminology - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Criminology
Criminology with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Criminology with Foundation Year
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
ML94
Start date
September
Location
One Friar Gate Square, Derby Campus
The highlights
You’ll examine the causes and consequences of crime, how crime is measured and defined, and how criminals are managed and controlled
We give you an in-depth view of the challenges and dilemmas facing criminal justice professionals today - in the police, courts, prison and probation services, youth offending teams and victim support groups
We have strong links with practice including the HM Prison Service, Youth Justice Board and local Police Constabularies
Tailor 100% of your final year options to suit your career aims and passions.
This course opened up lots of career opportunities to me through volunteering placements, and equipped me with valuable skills and qualities which I can take forward into my future career.
Millie Gackowska
BSc Criminology graduate
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Why Criminology?
Criminology is a fascinating academic discipline, opening up pathways into a wide range of careers where you can have a real impact on society. On this course, you’ll debate major philosophical ideas about retribution, rehabilitation and punishment, exploring why people commit crime, why laws are created and broken, the effectiveness of sentencing and punishment, and the impact of crime on victims, communities and wider society.
Bringing together disciplines such as sociology, law, psychology and philosophy, our BSc (Hons) Criminology encourages you to think creatively, challenge established beliefs and develop your own research interests. Our emphasis on problem-based learning means you will be well equipped to meet the real-world challenges of the justice and penal system in practice.
Throughout the degree, you’ll develop your investigative, management and communication skills with activities such as interviewing, negotiation, decision-making, research and argument.
Hands-on learning
You’ll be able to make direct links between complex theories of criminology and the day-to-day demands of working practice. Thanks to our strong professional partnerships with the police, probation service, prisons and other criminal justice agencies, there are exciting opportunities for you to apply your skills and knowledge to ‘real-world’ situations.
In the past, students in their first year have been given a tour of the National Justice Museum to give their learning a historical context.
There is endless variety and scope for practical projects: in the past our students have taken part in mock murder hunts, contributed to hate crime scrutiny panels, investigated miscarriages of justice, joined riot training with the constabulary, and observed how cases are taken from crime scene to courtroom.
Global thinking
International perspectives are an integral part of the BSc (Hons) Criminology – you will explore how other countries approach criminal justice at first hand. We have previously hosted international debates with Criminology students from across the globe, and such experiences enrich your learning and help shape your future career.
Expert teaching
You’ll learn from an award-winning teaching team which includes criminal psychologists, sociologists, experienced police officers and lawyers. Many are still actively engaged with practice, which helps you keep up to date with contemporary issues.
The degree is also closely aligned to the research activities of our staff, who have a growing international profile for shaping understanding and practice in the criminal justice sector. Research projects cover everything from drug use, hate crime and human trafficking to psychopathy, organised crime and witness reliability.
You’ll also have the chance to meet influential leaders in the profession. Our regular programme of guest speakers keeps you in tune with latest developments in policy and practice. Previous guest speakers include crown court judges, police investigators and professionals from the youth justice practice.
Equipment and resources
As a BSc (Hons) Criminology student, you’ll be based on the Derby Campus at One Friar Gate Square. Offering the perfect environment for innovative and engaging teaching, it includes well-resourced lecture theatres, seminar rooms and social learning spaces.
You’ll be able to gain practical experience of investigative processes using our first-rate facilities such as a replica crown court and custody suite.
Because you’ll be working alongside students taking courses in subjects such as law, sociology, international relations and policing, there are many opportunities to share knowledge, expertise and experience.
Study overseas
Spending time studying in another country is a great way to broaden your academic experience, enhance your personal development, boost your confidence and expand your career opportunities.
You could choose to study part of your degree at one of our partner universities in America:
• Eastern Michigan University
• Keene State College in New Hampshire
• Longwood University in Virginia
• Indiana University - Purdue University Indianapolis
The Gateway to Your Legal Career
Our modern, iconic building offers state-of-the-art facilities like a replica Crown Court and Custody Suite. Just a short walk from the city centre, One Friar Gate Square is designed to elevate your academic journey.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You’ll learn through a combination of:
• lectures
• tutorials
• group work
• independent learning
How you are assessed
Assessment is via a stimulating mix of:
• coursework
• portfolios
• individual and group projects/presentations
• examinations
Who you’ll meet
You’ll be taught by our team of engaging, passionate and inspiring subject experts. We also offer a high level of support to students, including a unique personal tutor system to help steer your academic and professional development.
The team includes:
Dr Luke Vinter
Dr Sam King
Dr David Patton
Dr Andrew Wilson
Kirsty Teague
Dr Valeria Abreu
Robyn Fawcett
Dr Don John Omale
Jayne Noor-Mohammed
Dr Mohammed Ilyas
Professor Kate Moss
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
DBS check if required for research purposes
We may offer a study trip if applicable and appropriate
Local trips to visit criminal justice organisations (eg. courts, police stations)
Access to online learning materials.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
One of the advantages of the BSc (Hons) Criminology is the huge career scope it delivers. We’re aware of the rapid pace of change in the dynamic criminology sector and are committed to helping you develop a valuable set of skills which are attractive to a wide range of employers nationally and internationally.
Our graduates have gone on to diverse roles in the police, Crown Prosecution Service, courts, probation and prison services, youth offending teams and other law enforcement agencies. Some have also progressed to rewarding careers in the voluntary sector, working with offenders or victims.
Because this degree also equips you with broader skills – from research and analysis to entrepreneurial thinking – you will have the versatility to pursue other career paths in areas such as social research, public sector management or third sector roles such as victim services. Some graduates use their qualification as a springboard into teaching or academic research too.
Further study
You can go on to pursue
postgraduate study
at Derby, with  MSc qualifications in subjects such as
Forensic and Criminal Psychology
,
Criminal Investigation
,
Criminal Justice and Criminology
and
Intelligence, Security and Disaster Management
.
These will expand your knowledge into more specialist areas and help accelerate your progress to senior and leadership roles.
“I was immediately drawn to this particular course as I felt it coincided with both my professional and research interests. As someone who already works in practice, I was impressed to see that the course could be tailored for someone who is employed, allowing me a flexible approach to my studies.”
Alan Harrop, MSc Criminal Justice and Criminology.
As a graduate of the University of Derby, you may benefit from an
alumni discount
on your postgraduate course fees if you continue to study with us.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Criminology and Sociology with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Criminology BSc (Hons)
Criminology and Sociology BA (Hons)
LLB (Hons) with Criminology