Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/curriculum-management/

Curriculum Management - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Curriculum Management
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Curriculum Management
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
Module details
Module code
7NU518
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
40 credits
Next course date
January
Duration
8 months
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Module description
About this module
This module is the second and final module for any health and social care professional with an education or teaching component to their role. If you are a Nurse or Midwife, the module is designed to meet the NMC requirements for Stage 4-Qualified Teacher Status. The module is also mapped against the Higher Education Academy standards so that all Health Care practitioners will exit with the fellowship of the HEA.
Who this course is for
All health and social care professionals
Programme Leader
Cath Vassar
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
By developing a programme of learning opportunities with reference to curriculum design, programme organisation and the assessment of learning within an interprofessional you will develop your leadership and management skills related to the education process.
While critically analysing the use of evaluation and quality assurance within the professional education arena you will be able to demonstrate an ability to monitor and evaluate the quality of learning opportunities within you area of practice.
Through the use of Action Learning Sets you will see how the promotion of interprofessional learning in the educational arena is imperative within the evolving health care sector.
Entry requirements
To study this module you will need:
a professional qualification
practice teaching/mentoring at level 7
Fees and funding
If you are funding your own study, the module price will be confirmed shortly.
For more information on payment options, please contact our Student Records and Fees team by phone on
+44 (0)1332 591063
or email at
studentrecordsandfees@derby.ac.uk
.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
E:
lbr@derby.ac.uk
T:
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.