Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/therapeutic-practice-courses/dance-movement-psychotherapy-ma/

Dance Movement Psychotherapy MA - Therapeutic Arts - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Therapeutic Arts
Dance Movement Psychotherapy MA
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Dance Movement Psychotherapy
MA
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 2 years
UK fee
£13,500 for the full course
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Build your experience of clinical dance movement psychotherapy and use your creativity to promote self-expression.
Develop the skills and knowledge to enable you to apply for registration as a dance movement psychotherapist.
Study a course accredited by the
Association for Dance Movement Psychotherapy UK (ADMP UK)
which can allow an opportunity for routes to UKCP to be explored during and after graduation
Learn the latest theory and practice from experienced and enthusiastic staff
Professionally accredited course
This course is accredited by the Association for Dance Movement Psychotherapy UK (ADMP UK) which can allow an opportunity for routes to UKCP accreditation. This way you can be confident that you will be learning the most up to date thinking on Dance Movement Psychotherapy. On successful completion, you will be eligible to register as a Dance Movement Psychotherapist within ADMP UK.
How Kelly is improving children's mental health
Kelly jumped at the opportunity to work for the charity Place2Be after graduating from her MA Dance Movement Psychotherapy course. See how she is using the skills she gained to improve children's mental health.
Read Kelly's story
Read Kelly's story
Build your experience
This course will encourage you to build on your knowledge, experience and creative expression whilst developing new skills within the field of clinical Dance Movement Psychotherapy. You will be guided by the principles that underlie humanistic and integrative psychotherapy while creatively exploring self-expression through body, movement and dance.
Lectures will incorporate presentations, reflexive discussion and experiential aspects. You will consider the relationship between theory and practice, becoming familiar with the most up to date research and applying learned theories and methods within your clinical placement. You will be supported through weekly tutorials and supervision sessions; these will assist you in developing your ideas and considering critical perspectives when reflecting on your work. Assessments will vary to encourage your creativity and reflective process; these include presentations, video production, facilitation and written critiques.
As well as the taught modular components, you will engage in personal therapy throughout the course. This can be individual therapy or within a group setting. 80 hours of personal therapy, at an additional cost to your course fees, is a requirement for professional registration as a Dance Movement Psychotherapist. We feel confident that you will appreciate the personal and professional benefits of this therapy as a means of support and understanding of the psychotherapeutic process.
We welcome guest speakers and offer perspectives on international, national and global approaches. There is the possibility to develop projects and relationships with employers when you are on clinical placements and develop local and global networks. It is also possible to present your ideas at conferences as well as develop your research ideas.
Understand theory and practice
It’s important to understand the roots of Dance Movement Psychotherapy, from the early pioneers through to the current perspective. You’ll cover concepts such as the theory and practice of Dance Movement Psychotherapy and the importance of improvisation, creativity, and play.
You’ll use and reflect on psychotherapeutic theory, while considering the implications for placement and practice.
The somatic understanding in psychotherapeutic practice is an essential foundation of Dance and Movement Psychotherapy. You’ll also explore anatomy and physiology, which are essential to your understanding of movement and its relevance for psychotherapy through experiential mediums in arts- based practice and in particular dance.
We have excellent facilities, including a
dance studio
and enjoy cooperation and commonality with the other Arts Therapies.
We’re proud to say that our courses are closely mapped against the health and social care sector and for work in schools. This ensures that our curriculum and practice is up-to-date, providing you with the assurance that your learning is current and relevant. This does mean that we do have to respond to national changes such as government policy. As a result, some of the information about our courses may change. Please check the website for the latest information.
Move for Wellbeing
After graduating from the University of Derby with a Masters Degree in Dance Movement Psychotherapy, Aishwarya Deshpande established Move for Wellbeing with the help of our business support services.
Read Aishwarya's story
Read Aishwarya's story
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You’ll study modules such as:
Postgraduate Certificate
Psyche-Soma: The Body Mind Relationship (20 credits)
Movement Observation and Analysis: Studio (20 credits)
Clinical Placement and Supervision (20 credits)
Postgraduate Diploma
Experiential Group Skills (20 credits)
Dance Movement Psychotherapy: Research, Theory and Skills (20 credits)
Clinical Supervision and Advanced Practice (20 credits)
MA
Arts Therapies Independent Scholarship: A Body of Work (60 credits)
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You'll meet
Dr Jill Bunce
from our teaching team. Jill develops community projects for placement, interacts with placement managers and develops the skills of other professionals. Jill is responsible for the teaching methods and delivery of this course and the design of the course to professional standards of ADMP (the Association of Dance Movement Psychotherapists). Jill specialises in the body and mind relationship in Parkinson's Disease; body image; cultural diverse practice; dance performance and educational psychotherapy.
How you're assessed
You will receive clear guidelines upon the nature of assessment for each module at its commencement. Modules are assessed through the submission of verbal presentations, written work and other art forms including videos, written and spoken language and group facilitation; aimed at demonstrating that you have met the learning outcomes pertinent to the module.
The clinical placements are assessed through the submission of reports completed by the Clinical Placement Manager and the use of Supervision with your University Supervisor. These and your clinical work are then discussed between you and your University Supervisor. You will also need to write a case study which will show how you have approached your work on placement. You will be required to explore and administer the ethical context of writing this case study.
Who will teach you
Rachael-Louise Stonard
Programme Leader
Rachael-Louise Stonard
Rachae-Louise Stonard is Lecturer in Therapeutic Arts and Programme Lead for the MA Dance Movement Psychotherapy.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You'll need a relevant undergraduate degree and at least two years’ experience of dance and movement and have worked with a vulnerable population(s) for 200 hours.
A
Disclosure and Barring Service
(DBS) is required at the point of accepting a place at the University. The Disclosure and Barring Service was established when the Criminal Records Bureau (CRB) and Independent Safeguarding
Authority (ISA) merged in 2012 and will now provide the criminal records checking service for this programme.
If English is not your first language, you will need to hold IELTS of at least 7.0 with 6.5 in each skills area or equivalent
Interview information
Admissions information
Please note that this course operates a pooled admissions approach which has a final application deadline of 3 March 2025. We may look to open another pool for our September 2025 intake, however, this cannot be guaranteed.
Your portfolio
Following application submission, applicants will be asked to submit an online portfolio. Applicants who are invited to submit a portfolio will have two weeks to do so and will receive guidance information related to the completion of the portfolio.
The portfolio element of your application must be submitted in order for you to be shortlisted for interview.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to complete a satisfactory virtual interview. Non-attendance may result in your application being withdrawn.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£13,500 for the full course
N/A
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£13,950 for the full course
N/A
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
Additional costs and optional extras
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Resources for practical workshops, clinical supervision, some travel to placements can also be refunded
DBS check
Health screening costs
Students can make use of Adobe Creative Suite which is installed on all Macs in MS102 and MS012 at Markeaton Street and students are provided with an individual Adobe Creative Cloud subscription for home use
To support their professional and skills development, students are provided with a subscription to LinkedIn Learning which offers over 13,000 courses and tutorials, including professional accreditations, in a wide range of creative, business & technology disciplines
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Minimum of 80 sessions of personal therapy approx. £3200
Travel to and from placements, some placement related expenses are reimbursed if students spend more than £5 per day in travel to and from placement, approx. £150 per month
Association for Dance Movement Psychotherapy UK, required to practice approx. £145
Optional costs not included in your fees
Students may opt to engage in international trips and activities that are not fully funded, though bursaries may be available
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
You will become a fully registered Dance Movement Psychotherapist with the
Association of Dance Movement Psychotherapy
(ADMP UK). This requires completion of the expected training hours and fulfilling all the hours of personal therapy.
You can develop practice in health, education and in the community and later supervise, lecture and research in the field of Dance Movement Psychotherapy.
You will gain an MA, which will enable you to become familiar with critical reflection and research ideas.
Our graduates
Nandini Manjunath is studying a professional doctorate in psychotherapy, completing research and supporting clients who are experiencing mental health difficulties and those with a history of childhood sexual abuse and trauma.
Rae Scudder is a Specialist Wellbeing Practitioner and Wellbeing Client Coordinator at "Inspirative Arts". She project manages a funding grant to support groups and individuals with barriers to employment through a range of wellbeing and psychotherapeutic activities.
Ellis Frost works across an education federation (consisting of three primary schools) as a Clinical Lead and Head Practitioner delivering psychotherapy interventions to groups and individuals, he also works in a rehabilitation centre and delivers Dance and Movement Psychotherapy sessions each week.
Christina Gougouli provides monthly Dance Movement Psychotherapy workshops whilst working as a psychologist at a day centre for children on the autistic spectrum. She also co-leads a gender based violence project for survivors of abuse supporting them to build resilience and identify their boundaries through movement interventions.
Tamara Roberts is working as a Dance Movement Psychotherapist in Trauma Care at Imara, where she collaboratively supports children and families who have been impacted by child sexual abuse. She is also developing a therapeutic service department at Portland College where she will offer Dance Movement Psychotherapy and manage therapist student placements.
Tammy Lowe works for a children and adolescent mental health and emotional well-being service in Staffordshire as a Dance Movement Psychotherapist and Children and Young Person's Therapist in schools and children's centres. She also facilitates therapeutic group work to meet presenting needs, such as anxiety and depression, and delivers mental health presentations to schools and parenting support groups across Staffordshire.
Danielle Whiteley-Smith works for a supported housing charity with vulnerable young women affected by trauma and abuse, facilitating Dance Movement Psychotherapy sessions for individuals and families, at women's refuges and local schools. Danielle also provides Dance Movement Psychotherapy for older adults seeking therapeutic support with mental health difficulties for the national charity "Mind".
"This course has absolutely changed my life, not just through doing the training, but also through looking towards getting work after I leave. That's something the tutors really do focus on."
"As an Indian student, at first I found the transition to higher education in the UK difficult. In India I never felt I had room to explore and found the system really rigid. The freedom on this course allowed for so much more than study. It allowed for intense personal development and I found it truly life-changing. I've now gone on to study for my doctorate and hope to teach in the UK in the future."
Graduates, MA Dance Movement Psychotherapy
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.