Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/dance-courses/dance-and-movement-for-wellbeing-ba-hons/

Dance and Movement for Wellbeing BA (Hons) - Dance - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Dance
Dance and Movement for Wellbeing BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Dance and Movement for Wellbeing
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 Years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
DM01
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
This course is ideally suited for individuals who are deeply passionate about dance and movement, as well as those who aspire to use their creativity to positively impact the lives of others. This course offers you a transformative educational journey, equipping you with the skills, knowledge, and ethical understanding necessary to harness the potential of dance and movement in promoting holistic health and wellbeing. This innovative three-year programme stands out for its specialised focus and commitment to applied learning and research-informed teaching.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
You will study the below modules:
Year 1
Dynamic Movement 1: Technique and Improvisation in Dance (40 Credits)
This highly practical module is designed to enhance your understanding and knowledge of dance through a blend of technique and improvisational exercises. Each two-hour session commences with a structured class encompassing diverse styles such as contemporary, ballet, yoga or skinner release, followed by an exploration of improvisational techniques.
Dance for Mental Health (40 credits)
This module will offer you the opportunity to reflect on the impact dance has on your own understanding of wellbeing and mental health. You will be encouraged to explore dance techniques and methods of delivery that have informed your personal dance practice as well as those that may be less familiar to you. You will have the opportunity to learn from the different experiences of those in the group in a safe and supportive environment.
Exploring Current Dance Practice for Wellbeing (20 credits)
This module introduces key themes and trends in 21st-century dance practice relating to the impact dance practice has on health and wellbeing. It will develop critical and analytical thinking.
Community Dance: Engaging, Inspiring, and Empowering through Movement (20 credits)
The Community Dance module delves into the use of movement within diverse community settings. Through a blend of theoretical exploration and practical engagement, you will develop the skills and insights necessary to lead and inspire through dance. Emphasising experiential learning, you will actively participate in studio-based projects, experimenting with movement options, and cultivating your own creative ideas.
Year 2
Dynamic Movement 2: Technique and Improvisation in Dance (40 credits)
Dynamic Movement 2 is a progressive continuation of the foundational principles established in Dynamic Movement 1 (level 4). Building upon the skills, knowledge, and experiences gained in the previous module, Dynamic Movement 2 places a greater emphasis on deeper understanding, skill development, and individual critical reflection.
This module is designed to challenge students to expand their technical proficiency, creative expression, and conceptual understanding of dance. Through the three weekly advanced practical sessions, you will refine your mastery of various dance techniques introduced in Dynamic Movement 1, while also exploring new styles and approaches to movement.
Dance for the Elderly (40 credits)
This module is designed to equip you with the expertise to engage and enhance the wellbeing of elderly individuals through dance and movement. Recognising the unique needs and benefits associated with this age group, you will delve into falls prevention programmes, and explore research in the field of Dance for Dementia and Parkinson’s. The module is underpinned by an understanding of anatomy and physiology to comprehend the ageing body from a physical perspective. Additionally, social perspectives on ageing will be explored, examining how society views ageing as either disabling or enabling.
Community Engagement and Applied Dance Placement (20 credits)
This module introduces key theories and methodologies for dance practice in applied contexts. These may include community dance projects for a range of client groups, dance in healthcare settings as well as dance in education including primary and secondary contexts. You will also explore the work of professional dance company education and outreach departments.
This knowledge will be carried forward into a placement in an applied or educational dance setting.
Dance for Early Years: Facilitation and Creative Exploration for Children and Parents (20 credits)
The Dance for Early Years module explores facilitating dance experiences tailored specifically for early childhood development, alongside engaging parents in the process. This module underscores the pivotal role of movement in developing not only physical but also emotional growth in children. Drawing upon insights from developmental psychology, you will explore the nuanced stages of childhood development to tailor dance experiences that are conducive to children's holistic wellbeing.
Year 3
Dynamic Movement 3: Technique and Improvisation in Dance (40 credits)
Dynamic Movement 3 is a progressive continuation of the principles established in Dynamic Movement 2 (level 5). Building upon the skills, knowledge, and experiences gained in the previous module, Dynamic Movement 3 places emphasis on deeper understanding, skill development, and individual critical reflection as articulated in Dynamic Movement 2 however in this module you will be guided through the process of designing and delivering sessions for your peers.
Independent Study in Dance and Movement for Wellbeing (40 credits)
This module offers you the opportunity to explore diverse avenues in the realm of dance and movement and its impact on personal and communal wellness. With three distinct assessment options, you can tailor your learning experiences to suit your interests and strengths as you embark on this individual research project.
Creative Ballet Practice (20 credits)
This is a practical module; however, no experience of ballet technique is required. Ballet will be viewed as an art form that sits at the heart of the Western dance tradition however, it will be re-framed and scrutinised as an art form undergoing necessary changes to meet the current social and political agendas of inclusivity and diversity. The classical tropes and traditions will be challenged and ways of working with the art form in different contexts with a variety of cohorts will be explored.
Arts for Wellbeing (20 credits)
The Arts for Wellbeing module offers an exploration of the transformative power of the arts for holistic wellbeing. Students will delve into various artistic disciplines, including music, film, literature, and more, through engaging with accomplished artists who will share their practices and insights.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
A variety of approaches will underpin your learning and teaching experience within the programme. You will be encouraged to take an increasingly autonomous approach to your development, and you will acquire key skills and evolve learning patterns on which to build your knowledge and understanding. Your experiential learning will result from a demanding range of practical activities and through the opportunity to integrate theory and practice.
Our teaching methods will be varied, interactive and engaging. You will take part in:
practical dance classes
practical creative workshops
group discussions - both peer and tutor-led
research and development labs
critical feedback sessions
seminars
independent study
masterclasses
digital skills workshops.
How you are assessed
You will be assessed through a mixture of:
practical classes
performances
research essays and papers
vivas/presentations
journals.
Who you'll meet
Alice Marshall (Vale)
has a passion for utilising dance as a tool to address complex social issues. With a background in community facilitation and dance performance, she is equipped to share her knowledge in this fascinating field of dance for wellbeing. Her research focuses on creating accessible and attainable works that raise awareness of difficult topics with her company
Adaire to Dance
. Previous investigations into the role and definition of entertainment have allowed Alice to contribute to scholarly discussions in the field, holding credentials with Routledge.
Liz Foster
has years of experience in the dance industry both as a facilitator, performer and choreographer.  She has worked as a lead dance artist with various companies including Royal Opera House, Royal Ballet School, Rambert Dance Company and as movement director for performances at the Buxton Festival.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Alice Marshall (Vale)
Programme Leader
Alice Marshall (Vale)
Alice is dedicated to using dance to address complex social issues. With extensive experience in community facilitation and performance, she shares her expertise with all those she teaches. Her research has contributed to scholarly dis...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
N/A
Additional entry requirements
Portfolio: Recommended -
view portfolio details
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Support and guidance from staff
Students can make use of Adobe Creative Suite which is installed on all Macs in MS102 and MS012 at Markeaton Street and students are provided with an individual Adobe Creative Cloud subscription for home use
To support their professional and skills development, students are provided with a subscription to LinkedIn Learning which offers over 13,000 courses and tutorials, including professional accreditations, in a wide range of creative, business & technology disciplines
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Tickets to see shows at Derby Theatre (£6 student deal)
Dance clothes (£15-£40 per outfit)
Optional costs not included in your fees
Props/costumes if needed for your work (£40-£100)
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
As a graduate of this course, you will have acquired a comprehensive skill set and knowledge base that prepares you for a multitude of post-programme opportunities.
This course prepares graduates for diverse and impactful career paths. Key opportunities include roles as community dance participation practitioners within mental health organisations and NHS trusts, outreach and engagement positions within dance companies, and freelance work across various contexts from nurseries and care homes to ballet companies. Graduates can also pursue careers in dance management, production, community engagement, and arts and health advocacy roles.
There are clear pathways to advance your expertise through our specialised MA programmes in Dance Movement Psychotherapy and Dance and Choreography, offering opportunities for further specialisation and career advancement in related fields.
This course will provide you with the tools, skills, and understanding to pursue a fulfilling and impactful career in the dynamic and evolving field of dance and movement for wellbeing.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Other courses you might like
Dance and Choreography MA
Dance Movement Psychotherapy MA