Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/diagnostic-radiography-degree-apprenticeship/

Diagnostic Radiography Degree Apprenticeship - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Diagnostic Radiography Degree Apprenticeship
Apply now
Apply now
Apprenticeship Course
Diagnostic Radiography Apprenticeship (progression) Programme BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Benefits
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Next course date
January
Duration
18 months
Course description
The BSc (Hons) Diagnostic Radiography Degree Apprenticeship aims to give learners and employers more flexibility with regard to how we can offer training to upskill the existing Assistant practitioner workforce, but also offer an alternative pathway for those wishing to follow an Apprenticeship route to practitioner
This programme has been developed as an innovative, predominantly online programme with two optional face-to-face on campus 'schools'
This will be delivered online via the award-winning University of Derby online platform, with regular synchronous tutor support to supplement the asynchronous high-quality resources
The aim of this programme is to enable imaging assistant practitioners to bridge the gap between their existing practice at band 4 and enable them to gain the necessary, skills, knowledge and experience in order to meet the requirements for registration as a diagnostic radiographer
You will build on the competencies acquired in your role as an assistant practitioner. Apprentices should enter the study programme with the assumption that they possess the essential assistant practitioner key skills as defined under the scope of practice by the College of Radiographers
The programme is structured to be delivered across the whole calendar; you will work in 'trimesters' which means Jan-April; May-Aug, Sept-Dec
You will transition from AP to practitioner in 18 months
This programme is accredited by the HCPC and validated by the University of Derby
Approved by the College of Radiographers
Who is this course for?
The programme is open to applicants who employers put forward as an apprenticeship candidate
All learners must work in the diagnostic imaging environment and be able to undertake (have access to) the full range of clinical experience in order the meet the HCPC standard of proficiency (and those of the Diagnostic Radiography Apprenticeship standard) and have their managers' support
Managers must be able to reassure the university that the learner will be enabled and supported in their efforts to successfully complete the course
Within the workplace learners must be supported by practice assessors (workplace mentors) and supervisors who must be registered health professionals (HCPC registered Diagnostic radiographer); the workplace will be asked to undertake an audit as part of the initial contracting process
Workplace mentors/assessors and supervisors will be offered training and support, and an apprentice must be given a named assessor who must have undertaken our bespoke support mentor training package
Structure, certificates and assessment
Please note that all modules are core.
Level 5
Developing projection radiography (20 credits)
Developing imaging practice (20 credits)
Professional skills in clinical practice (20 credits)
Level 6
Advancing projection radiography (20 credits)
Advancing imaging practice (20 credits)
Advancing professional skills (20 credits)
Independent scholarship (40 credits)
Transition to practice (20 credits)
How you will learn
Training will be delivered online via the University of Derby online platform, with regular synchronous tutor support to supplement the asynchronous high-quality resources.
This is a completely bespoke programme for apprentices, designed to align with the apprenticeship standard, ethos and pragmatic approach to assessment and learning.
The University of Derby has a history of delivering apprenticeship programmes which have been developed in conjunction with practice partners to deliver training that is fit for purpose and learners that are fit for practice upon completion. The University of Derby Online, spanning over 20 years and having a wealth of experience in delivering quality programmes through online collaborative learning media and methods, can ensure that learners are well supported even though they are working, living and studying at a distance.
You will study modules and in each module, there will be 10 units of study materials. The off-the-job learning study materials will aim to be aligned to the real world and to be patient-focused, in order to demonstrate impact to the users of our services. Wherever possible, stories, vignettes, videos and prompts (in a variety of formats) will be utilised to trigger reflection and evaluation of excellence in evidence-based practice.
The online materials will encourage you to review and reflect on the evidence base in relation to the topics under review - so not just 'what' we do but 'why' we do what we do. It will develop your curiosity in order to look for and review the evidence base, and debate current and future trends. You will be encouraged to work together in peer groups and in group spaces online (for example using discussion boards.)
To deepen your critical reflective skills, you will be invited to regular tutor-led sessions (synchronous) within each module. These online 'live' sessions will enable you to connect and interact with the programme team for debate, discussion and other activities. These sessions will also be recorded.
How you’re assessed
There are a number of practice-based assessments, all linked to the HCPC SoPs (2022) but the timing of these is very much down to the practice assessor. We indicate in the high-level plan a suggested 'pace' and there are regular tripartite reviews to take stock of progress.
Clinical assessments are part of a clinical portfolio which eventually forms part of the EPA; these will be assessed by the workplace mentor. Pebblepad will be used to record the clinical portfolio (EPA) and to keep relevant apprenticeship records.
Who you'll meet
You will be taught by qualified professionals with extensive experience. They have proven, sustained track records in higher education teaching.
Our staff keep up to date with the latest developments in the sector by undertaking continuous professional development.
Personal academic tutoring
Your personal academic tutor will work with you to help you get the most out of your time at university. Having someone to talk to about your academic progress, your university experience and your professional aspirations is hugely valuable. We want you to feel challenged in your studies, stretched but confident to achieve your academic and professional goals.
Request more information about our apprenticeship programmes
Want to talk to a member of the team about our apprenticeship programmes? Make an enquiry and a member of our team will get in contact to provide you with more information about our apprenticeships, and how our programmes can upskill your workforce.
Request more information about apprenticeships
Request more information about apprenticeships
Benefits
Flexible learning approach
Accredited by the HCPC
Offers an alternative pathway for those wishing to follow an Apprenticeship route to practitioner
Supervisor training for practice educators and mentors
Entry requirements
Note: this programme is suitable for assistant practitioners who already have a foundation degree and who are looking to 'upskill' and complete their training to practitioner level.
Foundation degree
(FdSc) as an Assistant Practitioner in a projection (plain film) imaging pathway* normally completed within the previous 5 years
If the Foundation degree (FdSc) Assistant Practitioner was completed in a modality only pathway, then this is not sufficient. The applicant would usually need to complete UoD FdSc in appendicular imaging in order to 'top up' the FdSc to meet our entry requirement **
In the case this has been longer than 5 years then satisfactory evidence of ongoing
evidence-based
CPD may be requested, and these applications will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis
Overseas applicants will require IELTS with an overall score of 6.5 with no less than 6 in any category, or an equivalent English qualification
Level 2 English qualification
(GCSE Grade 4-9, GCSE Grade A-C, Level 2 Functional Skills English, Key Skills Level 2 Communication or equivalent); (
essential
)
Level 2 Maths qualification
(GCSE Grade 4-9, GCSE Grade A-C, Level 2 Functional Skills Maths, Key Skills Level 2 Application of Number (Numeracy) or equivalent); (
essentia
l)
*
The Healthcare Assistant Practitioner Apprenticeship Standard Reference: ST0215, is satisfactory, if modules in skeletal imaging (that include appendicular imaging), radiographic anatomy and radiation physics have been completed.
** We will not teach/assess appendicular radiography, basic patient care skills, x-ray production, x-ray tube construction or basics of legislation (IRMER or IRR), so this must be evidenced (credit bearing) by entrant at level 4/5. This 'top up' credit module would need to be completed as an extra 'CPD' module if appendicular imaging had not been studied at level 4 - i.e. would not be funded under the apprenticeship levy if undertaken separately.
If you need to gain competency in projectional (plain film) radiography, our online
Radiographic Imaging Certificate of Credit
can help you to achieve this.
Fees and funding
Employers
Cost of the apprenticeship will normally be £14,400 but individual agreements will be considered depending on student numbers and the involvement of employers.
Apprentices
Fees will be paid by your employer with government-funded support or through the apprenticeship levy.
How to apply
Places on the new programme will be capped for each intake to ensure we offer a high-quality experience, so please do register your interest with us early on.
Our business development manager is Ben Cope:
b.cope@derby.ac.uk
Our admissions manager for the programme is Jenny Corden-Jolly:
j.corden-jolly@derby.ac.uk
Empower your workforce with block bookings
Take advantage of a short courses block booking to upskill your employees. Our short courses run on-campus and online and include new legislation and other up-to-the-minute issues. Get in touch today and we will tailor a package to meet the needs of your business.
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Apprenticeship Hub
Email:
apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk
Phone:
01332 593092