Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/radiography-courses/diagnostic-radiography-bsc-hons/

Diagnostic Radiography BSc (Hons)  - Radiography - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Radiography
Diagnostic Radiography BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Diagnostic Radiography
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
128
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
B821
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
The best bits
Take your first steps towards a career as a diagnostic radiographer
This dynamic course will equip you with all the professional skills, practical experience and technological know-how you need
95% of our graduates are in work or further study within 15 months of completing this course (Graduate Outcomes Survey)
Prepare for your career on a course approved by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC), so you can apply to register with them as a diagnostic radiographer on graduation, as long as you meet the HCPC’s requirements
Build your technical and interpersonal skills on a variety of clinical placements which make up around half of your time on the course
Gain hands-on experience in our purpose-built diagnostic imaging suite and our new immersive simulation environment
Engage with our enthusiastic teaching team of qualified health professionals who deliver an inspiring learning experience
Top
10
for graduate prospects
Medical Technology and Bioengineering subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
Top
30
for Health Professions
Guardian University Guide 2024
Top
15
for satisfaction with teaching in Health Professions
Guardian University Guide 2024
1
st
for learning resources
BSc (Hons) Diagnostic Radiography - National Student Survey 2024
92
%
of Students agreed that teaching staff are good at explaining things
BSc (Hons) Diagnostic Radiography - National Student Survey 2024
A worthwhile and important career
Radiographers work alongside other healthcare professionals to diagnose and treat patients using imaging techniques such as x-rays, CT scans and ultrasound.
With an acute shortage of radiographers in the UK and exciting developments in technology transforming the profession, there has never been a better time to consider a career in this important field.
The course is accredited by the
College of Radiographers
and approved by the
Health and Care Professions Council
(HCPC), which means you will be eligible to register as a diagnostic radiographer on graduating.
Hone your skills on placement
Approximately half of your time will be spent on clinical placement, so you’ll develop your skills as an all-round, flexible and adaptable healthcare professional – with the first-hand experience that employers are seeking.
You’ll work in various settings ranging from large teaching hospitals to community hospital departments. It means you’ll build your knowledge of how different imaging departments operate, the range of equipment used and the varying workloads, practices and roles in the profession.
Such diverse experiences also give you insights into the workplace settings and fields of radiography which might suit you best as you advance your career.
Leading-edge facilities
We have invested in exceptional learning facilities to give you the best possible preparation for practice. In our purpose-built
Diagnostic Imaging Suite
you’ll become familiar with the up-to-the-minute technology used by radiographers.  With the help of £250,000 funding from Health Education East Midlands, the suite has been upgraded to feature the very latest in x-ray, diagnostic radiography and ultrasound. You will also have access to a theatre image intensifier and a mobile x-ray machine. You can take a
virtual tour of our Diagnostic Imaging Suite
.
An exciting addition is our state-of-the-art
Immersive Interactive Simulation Suite
which offers a simulated environment where you can practise your skills in a safe but realistic setting. The first university facility of its kind outside London, the suite replicates the atmosphere, sights and sounds of, for instance, a busy A&E ward so you can gain a greater understanding of clinical decision-making in action.
A rich learning experience
All modules are designed to give you the core skills and experience you need to practise effectively, including the ability to make radiographer comments when viewing images. You’ll also explore the radiographer’s role in improving the quality of health and social care services and will build mentoring and leadership skills so that, once qualified, you can help nurture the next generation of radiographers.
There are opportunities at each stage of your course to learn with, and from, students from other disciplines. This is really important in preparing you to work in a multi-professional team after graduation. By learning to work together, you can help achieve the best outcomes for patients.
You could also have the opportunity to raise your professional profile nationally. Our students have attended prestigious conferences, written articles for leading journals and have become Care Maker Champions to spread the word about compassion in practice across the NHS.
Flexibility and choice
You can tailor your degree to match your specialist interests and career plans.
The course also features a three-week elective placement to broaden your horizons. Some students have chosen to explore fields such as veterinary radiography while others gain international experience: two students went on placement to Tanzania after securing a travel bursary from the British Institute of Radiology.
Support from a forward-thinking team
You’ll learn from a dynamic team of qualified and highly experienced healthcare professionals. They are committed to developing engaging teaching methods – one of the reasons our course has attracted exceptional student satisfaction ratings.
Among innovations pioneered by the team is an instructional e-learning resource of radiographic techniques which you’ll receive in your first year. This enables you to brush up on your positioning skills outside the classroom, while you’re at home, during your placement and in the run-up to exams. The resource was shortlisted for the Association for Learning Technology’s Epigeum Award for the Most Effective Use of Video.
Latest learning technologies are used in other ways too, including electronic aspects of clinical portfolios to help you reflect on your clinical experience and prepare for continuing professional development activities in your career.
Make the most of our partnerships
We have strong links with employers across the health and social care sector which will open doors for you, including the chance to attend guest lectures by leading professionals.
Our courses are closely mapped to the demands of the sector, ensuring that our curriculum is up to date and relevant. Because we respond promptly to national developments such as latest government policy, some of the information about our courses may change.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You’ll learn through group activities, lectures, practical work, seminars and simulation. Take a look at the
specialist facilities
you’ll use throughout the course.
How you're assessed
There are a range of assessments throughout the course including exams, assignments and presentations. Many of your assignments are focused on real-world scenarios to help you develop skills that you can take into your career. You’ll be assessed on placement by the radiographers you work with, and you’ll gain experience in presenting to an audience through presentations and posters.
Work placements
Clinical placements are an integral part of your study and make up roughly 50% of this programme. You will be allocated to a placement with the majority of these being in the East Midlands. Find answers to your
frequently asked questions
about placements.
Who you will meet
Our teaching team includes qualified health professionals with experience of working in clinical or community settings. Many hold external roles with hospitals, the College of Radiographers, the Health and Care Professions Council, and other universities.
Who will teach you
Kat Chalmers
Carol Earley
Sue Errett
Jane Gooch
Claire Norman
Veena Patel
Claire Richards
David Stuart
Claire Tucker
Nichola Tucker
Richard Tucker
Julie De Witt
Kirsty Wood
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Nichola Tucker
Programme Leader
Nichola Tucker
Nichola is a lecturer in Diagnostic Imaging on the BSc (Hons) Diagnostic Radiography programme.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
128
A Level
ABB (At least a grade B in either Biology, Physics or Chemistry (or equivalent qualification))
T Level
Distinction
BTEC
DDM. We do not accept BTEC Extended Diploma in Health & Social Care
GCSE
GCSE (or equivalent) Maths, English and Double Science at grade 4/C or above
Access to HE
Access to Science preferred. Pass Access to Higher Education Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 21, Merit: 24, Pass: 0. At least 24 credits must be a pure science (Biology preferred, Chemistry and Physics accepted)
If you do not meet the entry requirements for this course, you may be considered for the
BSc (Hons) Diagnostic Radiography with Foundation Year
. Please note that t
his course is only available to students who have applied for the equivalent three-year degree and have been offered this as a more suitable alternative by our Admissions team. We are not currently accepting direct applications.
Learn more about courses with Foundation Years
Additional entry requirements
Interview: Yes
view interview details
An
Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service certificate
cleared by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this once you have applied
An
Occupational Health Assessment
and Clearance by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this when required
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Travel will be reimbursed if it exceeds travel to and from the University campus base
Uniforms
Name badges and ID holders
Radiographic technique e-learning access
Access to Pepplepad for your clinical portfolios
DBS Check
Health Screening and vaccinations
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Travel to two-week elective placement in Year 3 if out of usual placement rotation
Suitable footwear for skills sessions and placements approx. £40
Optional costs not included in your fees
Theatre Shoes approx. £20
Textbooks to supplement anything available through the library - prices vary dependant on content
Printing costs of course materials if hard copy is desired approx. 5p per sheet
Attendance at conferences such as UKIO or ECR
Society & College of Radiographers student membership approx. £48 annually
Professional HCPC membership required to practice. More details can be found
www.hcpc-uk.org
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Due to the popularity of this course, and to ensure that each applicant is treated fairly, admissions to this course will be assessed via a gathered field approach. This means that we will let successful candidates know if they have been successful after all interviews have taken place. This course will close on Wednesday 29 January 2025 and interview outcomes will be sent together after the last interview dates in April.
Learn more about our Gathered Field Policy
Careers
When you graduate, you’ll be able to apply for registration with the UK Health and Care Professions Council as a diagnostic radiographer, as long as you meet the HCPC’s requirements, fully prepared to work in the rapidly expanding field of medical imaging.
Nationally, there is a 17% shortfall in radiographers so you can look forward to excellent career prospects. Our BSc (Hons) Diagnostic Radiography has an outstanding track record for producing highly employable graduates. Latest statistics showed that 95% of graduates from this course were in work or further study six months after completing their studies.
Many graduates go on to secure jobs at their placement hospitals and build on the skills they have gained on the course to become advanced practitioners. As part of your studies, you’ll develop your leadership capabilities to prepare for more senior roles and you’ll explore the way the profession is changing – in areas such as image analysis – to ensure you are ready to meet the challenge of change.
Extensive careers guidance is integrated at every stage of the course, including CV writing and interview skills. There are annual recruitment days held at the University where you will have the chance to meet prospective employers.
Opportunities for further study
We offer an exciting range of postgraduate courses to help you take your qualifications, skills and experience to the next level or to pursue new directions within the profession. These include our innovative
MSc Medical Ultrasound
which features a flexible part-time pathway as well as a fast-track full-time pathway.
You could also consider various postgraduate qualifications specialising in areas such as osteoporosis and falls management, bone densitometry reporting, and radiographic image analysis of the appendicular skeleton.
High employability rate clinched course choice for Yumna
Yumna was looking for a degree leading to a clearly defined job after graduating. When she saw the employability rate for our BSc (Hons) Diagnostic Radiography, she knew it was the course for her.
Read Yumna's story
Read Yumna's story
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
General admissions
admissionsbscdr@derby.ac.uk
-
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Diagnostic Radiography (Pre-Registration) MSc