Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/marketing-courses/digital-marketing-msc/

Digital Marketing MSc - Marketing - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Marketing
Digital Marketing MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Digital Marketing
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, January
Location
Derby Campus
Gain specialist digital and business knowledge while exploring responsible and ethical digital marketing conduct in the age of AI. You’ll put digital marketing into context through the exploration of the balance between digital innovation and responsible practices in designing digital experiences and technologies. We aim to nurture your skills to enable you to develop positive and critical attitudes towards responsible and mindful digital marketing practices, developing skills for current digital marketing challenges as well as those that may arise in the future.
Develop your ambitions
As a Digital Marketing student, you’ll be part of Derby Business School, benefitting from our research expertise and industry links. During your studies, you’ll have the chance to work on real industry projects, live briefs and industry case studies to build your network before you graduate. Our teaching team has a vibrant research and practitioner culture, with specialists covering areas such as blockchain, automation intelligence, digital marketing and virtual reality.
Creating leaders of the future
The MSc Digital Marketing aims to develop your skills to give you a solid basis to build your digital marketing career. You’ll cover themes such as:
digital transformation in organisations
balancing digital innovation with responsible principles
digital marketing in the era of AI
professional level digital skills
social media marketing
data-driven marketing.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You’ll study modules such as:
Digital Innovation and Change Management
The aim of this module is to develop your understanding of leadership, innovation, and change, focusing particularly on their interplay with digital marketing and market dynamics. Participants will scrutinise the impact of disruptive technologies on challenging conventional business methods, exploring innovative approaches across infrastructure, processes, people, culture, and sustainability to bolster the marketing function within a business.
Encouraged to draw upon personal experiences, participants will contribute to discussions, inquiries, critical thinking, and reflective exercises. Additionally, the module aims to enhance interpersonal skills and apply core leadership techniques to effectively persuade others and drive change for the benefit of an organisation.
Contemporary Marketing Challenges
We examine how to measure business performance from a strategic and marketing perspective, including brand evaluation, CRM, satisfaction measurement and loyalty measurement. This module also considers the impact of such measures on how organisations and individuals behave. You’ll harness both quantitative and qualitative research methods to explore how appropriate measures can be identified and tracked.
Digital Marketing Strategy
The exponential growth of digital tools, technologies and platforms, coupled with increased consumer adoption, has empowered many organisations to excel and compete through innovation. This module aims to increase your knowledge of different types of digital marketing strategies and demonstrate how organisations can foster innovation to effectively leverage digital marketing as a strategic asset in the global context.
Strategic Brand Management
This module aims to develop a thorough understanding of the role of branding in positioning an organisation both internally and externally. It further provides an opportunity for participants to critically evaluate branding strategies and tactics relevant to the digital age, using existing research and frameworks to acquire the insights, skills and competencies necessary to develop brands for a range of sector and industry settings.
Digital Marketing Campaigns & Analytics
You’ll explore a range of contemporary areas of digital marketing communication strategies and techniques that will be considered together with appropriate analytic tools and methods for such digital campaigns. This will include email marketing, search engine marketing/optimisation, pay-per-click, mobile marketing, Google Analytics, data mining, use of artificial intelligence and programmatic marketing.
Marketing Metrics
This module introduces the techniques for measuring and monitoring digital marketing communication campaigns and how to effectively manage individual web projects to maximise resources and investment return. The module also highlights legislation which is required to meet the minimum standards of accessibility for web users.
Independent study: Research Methods
Independent study: Research Methods
Independent Study: Dissertation
Independent Study: Dissertation
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Throughout the programme, you'll experience diverse learning and teaching methods designed to achieve the programme goals and learning outcomes and create a transformative and contextual learning environment enhanced by digital technology integration.
You'll learn through methods such as:
tutor facilitated learning with structured opportunities for discussion, reflection and planning for industry application
learning opportunities identified and taken directly from business/industry case studies or live briefs to form module assessments
business improvement projects/leadership projects
guest lectures by industry experts, academic practitioners and researchers to allow exploration and discussion around issues, opportunities, challenges and best practice
action learning sets and inquiry-based learning activities
use of simulations, Generative AI and game-based learning
specific digital marketing research
critical review of emerging themes in academic and professional literature
critical reflection and reflexive practice learning portfolios
Modules are typically assessed through one or more coursework assignments. There is a strong emphasis on individual assessment, although there are aspects of assessment where collaboration is required with peers. Coursework assignments may involve reflective portfolios, academic and management reports, analysis of real-world case studies or simulations, employer-commissioned live briefs, digital presentations or various combinations of these.
Who will teach you
Barbara Tomasella
Programme Leader
Barbara Tomasella
Barbara is a Senior Lecturer in Marketing.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You'll usually need:
A degree of at least a 2:2, or equivalent
If English is not your first language, you will also need IELTs 6.5 with 5.5 in each skills area.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Marketing Management MSc
MBA Global and MBA Global Finance