Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/marketing-courses/digital-marketing-bsc-hons/

Digital Marketing BSc (Hons) - Marketing - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Marketing
Digital Marketing BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Accredited by The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM)
Digital Marketing
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years,  Part-time: up to 6 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
N738
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
From social media platforms to smartphones and tablets, the way customers interact with brands is changing beyond all recognition. Digital marketing is now pivotal to every forward-thinking organisation - and a real opportunity for the ambitious marketer to get themselves noticed.
This degree is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), meaning if you choose specific modules, you’ll gain exemptions towards the CIM Diploma in Professional Marketing, enhancing your credibility as a marketer
Harness your own experiences as an avid digital consumer - and transform them into a rewarding career
Work with technologies, tools and platforms to help organisations get their message across
You may also be interested in
BSc (Hons) Digital Marketing with Placement Year
If you're interested in studying Marketing, you may also be interested in:
BA (Hons) Marketing
BA (Hons) Marketing, PR and Advertising
BSc (Hons) Marketing and Data Insights
BA (Hons) Marketing and Consumer Psychology
BA (Hons) Marketing and Management
Hands-on experience
The focus is on a genuine use of digital media in marketing. Social media engagement, viral marketing, multi-channel campaigns, content management, online advertising, search engine optimisation, mobile marketing strategies, digital analytics - it’s hands-on learning at its most inspirational.
You will learn how and when to use the differing technologies and techniques and learn to keep up with the latest opportunities. Our links with leading marketing and communications agencies will enhance your understanding of the various applications of those latest trends and technologies. You can even put your skills and ideas into practice on digital marketing internships, working in a marketing or customer-facing role. Alongside the digital know-how and technical experience, you won’t lose sight of the basics. A strong grounding in marketing, business and brand management underpins every aspect of this course.
Top
15
for academic support  - Marketing
National Student Survey 2024
1
st
for graduate prospects (on track) - Marketing
Complete University Guide 2025
Top
15
for Marketing and Public Relations
Guardian University Guide 2025
Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM)
The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) is the leading professional body for marketers worldwide and exists to develop the marketing profession, maintain professional standards and improve the skills of marketing practitioners.
We have joined forces with CIM to give students the opportunity to gain professional qualifications through the CIM. CIM qualifications are highly sought after by employers, and their content is reflected in our own degrees which ensures we are equipping students with the best opportunities for a successful marketing career.
Digital Marketing student Barbora excels during internship
Digital Marketing student Barbora Horackova’s creative passion is steering her towards a career in social media marketing.
Read more about Barbora's story here
Read more about Barbora's story here
New Derby Business School in the city centre
We're building a new Derby Business School, serving as an international centre of excellence. The superb new teaching facilities will build on our established reputation for inspirational teaching and research excellence, as we shape the next generation of qualified business leaders.
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You will be taught in a very participative way. Whilst you will enjoy learning from inspirational lecturers, you will also be able to contribute your own digital marketing experiences to the learning process from being both a consumer and user of digital technologies. You will be challenged to use various different media to convey your messages, whether it's through the use of infographics, videos or creating engaging written content, developing your creative writing skills.
Your work based projects will ensure you experience how the theories are applied in the real world, to understand how to obtain global reach through the use of digital technology. You will learn the methods and benefits of sound research, enhancing your academic and practical skills, you'll understand marketing in a real business context, learning essential strategies and planning.
Guest speakers will feature as part of the course and include experts from agencies and a wide-range of businesses.
Assessment
A wide range of assessments that deliver the academic rigour as well as
providing practical experience
which employers seek. In this BSc (Hons) Digital Marketing
programme you will develop social media business profiles, create infographics, build presentations, write reports and more.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Tracy Powell
Programme Leader
Tracy Powell
Tracy is the Programme Leader for  Digital Marketing and teaches on a number of modules across all levels of the Undergraduate Marketing programmes.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Opportunity to take a CIM module exam at the end of the second and third year (exam fees paid for first sit only)
Opportunity of part funded trips, optional with limited places available
Access to a range of software on university lab PCs
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
You only have to check out the job vacancies to see that digital marketing experience is now an essential attribute sought by many organisations. Roles like digital account manager, social media manager, SEO analyst and e-commerce manager offer great prospects for the savvy marketing professional.
As the digital world constantly evolves, the career scope is immense. Many employers are still grappling with the opportunities. Many want an input from the ‘born digital’ generation. With this degree on your CV, you’ll be well placed to bring the digital revolution to their marketing strategies.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Digital Marketing BSc (Hons) with Placement Year
Marketing BA (Hons)
Marketing, PR and Advertising BA (Hons)
Marketing and Data Insights BSc (Hons)
Marketing and Consumer Psychology BA (Hons) with Placement Year