Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/health-social-community-work-courses/doctor-health-social-care-practice/

Doctorate in Health and Social Care Practice - Health, Social and Community Work - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Health, Social and Community Work
Doctorate in Health and Social Care Practice
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Doctorate in Health and Social Care Practice
DPrac
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 4 years
UK fee
£3,300 per year
(2025/26)
‡
International fee
£3,300 per year
(2025/26)
‡
Start date
September
Location
Online
Preparing you professionally
This course aims to prepare health professionals, in practice or in academia, and leaders in the health and social care professions with research and research project management skills to take a leading role with the development of practice or the development of services within defined professional areas.
Setting you apart from other professionals in the area, it will enhance your ability to influence practice and prepare you for more senior roles in nursing, health and social care, or higher education.
With our Doctorate in Health and Social Care Practice, you can tailor your qualification to your own interests and develop as a clinical and professional leader in your field. In addition, you’ll improve your knowledge and understanding of a range of research and enquiry methodologies and skills related to your profession.
The following research specialisms are available:
Applied Psychology
Art Psychotherapy
Cognitive Behavioural Psychotherapy
Drama Psychotherapy
Health and Social Care
Integrative Counselling and Psychotherapy
Nursing
Occupational Therapy
Podiatry
Psychodynamic Psychotherapy
Radiography
Contribute to Original Research
By completing the research aspect of this course, you will be able to make an original contribution or application of knowledge to your specialist field. This will help you to lead on the development of services and professional practice, and will be directly relevant to your career.
This course is closely mapped against the nursing, health and social care sector. This ensures that our curriculum is up to date, providing you with the assurance that your learning is current and relevant. This does mean that we do have to respond to national changes such as government policy. As a result, some of the information about our courses may evolve in the light of progress.
View the student journey through the DPrac
Our programme lead for the Doctorate in Health and Social Care Practice, Dr Alan Williams talks about the course.
View the online Doctorate in Health and Social Care Practice course video transcript
What you will study
To complete the DPrac Health and Social Care Practice, you will need to undertake the postgraduate taught (PGT) phase which entails two x 60 credit modules. This is followed by the postgraduate research (PGR) phase of your doctoral studies where you will complete the 420 credit Independent Scholarship by working closely with your director of studies and supervisor to complete your research project.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
This course is taught and facilitated by leading academics who use a variety of flexible learning strategies to help you to reach your full potential.
The postgraduate taught (PGT) phase will be delivered online using the University’s virtual learning environment (VLE). All material will be available at the start of each trimester with a schedule so you can plan to attend synchronous sessions (e.g. webinars). Throughout the module there will be activities to complete and interaction between your peers and academic staff on the VLE. You are encouraged to join scheduled webinars (though they are recorded and are available to all students should it not always be possible to join live). In addition to your programme leader, you will have support from a module tutor and module leader during the taught phase.
The postgraduate research (PGR) phase of your programme / studies is where you will be allocated a director of studies and a second supervisor, so you’ll be supported at every stage by a team with expert knowledge. You will develop and complete your research project under your supervisors' guidance and then complete your thesis and viva voce (the oral examination, commonly referred to as a viva).
You’ll also join one of
our research groups
, which will help you to develop your research interests and skills and provide you with an opportunity to network and share interests with other professionals working in your field of expertise.
Pace of study
This programme is only available part-time online and can be completed in four years. To achieve your Professional Doctorate, you will need to complete two 60-credit modules in year one and year two and an Independent Scholarship (420 credits) in year three and four, with a maximum registration period of eight years.
The academic year is made up of three 10-week terms, known as trimesters. The postgraduate taught 60-credit modules are therefore taken over the whole academic year and we recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete 20-credits per 10-week trimester.
Assessment method
Assessment is through written assignments, writing up projects and research, formal dissemination of your work, a thesis, and a viva voce assessment. This course will enable you to make an original contribution in your specialist field of study and lead the development of services in your workplace.
Who will teach you
Dr Alan R Williams
Programme Leader
Dr Alan R Williams
Dr Alan R Williams joined the University as Academic Lead in April 2019. He led the online nursing and health portfolio and since August 2022 leads the professional doctorate in the College. Alan is a Registered Nurse (Adult and Mental...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You should have a Masters or postgraduate award (or equivalent) in an relevant academic field.
You should be registered or accredited as a health professional with regulatory organisation relevant to your practice.
If English is not your first language you must have achieved an IELTS score of at least level 6.5
Your research proposal (title page, aims & objectives, background, definition of research problem, outline of methods & data analysis, possible outcomes, timetable, and possible resources required, references, and if necessary, appendices)
Fees and funding
‡
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
UK/EU fee:
£3,300 per year
International fee:
£3,300 per year
About your fees
This figure would be the total cost of this course based on the fee in the current academic year. However, please note that fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase if your course lasts longer than one year.
If you are required to undertake any associate study or additional study as a condition of your offer for the programme, please be aware that the cost for this may be in addition to the programme cost stated above.
UK/EU fee:
£3,300 per year
International fee:
£3,300 per year
Please note that the instalment calendar for this programme is as follows:
Trimester in which course begins
Initial payment up front (25%)
2nd payment (25%) due
3rd payment (25%) due
4th payment (25%) due
Total payment made (100%)
Autumn
Enrolment = £825
1 November = £825
1 February = £825
1 May = £825
£3,300
Please note:
that any costs incurred as part of your Research Study are not included within your course fees.
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course. Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
All applications will be reviewed by the University and suitable applicants will be invited to for an interview that will be held on Microsoft Teams.
Documents to support your application.
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Proof of your qualifications such as copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications
Your up-to-date Curriculum Vitae (CV)
Two references - these can be sent electronically and can either be on signed letter headed paper or sent directly from your referees’ professional email address:
a satisfactory academic or employer reference from someone able to comment positively on your capability to study at the level of the programme you have applied for. It is your responsibility to obtain this reference, we do not contact your referees
Evidence of registration as health professional e.g. NMC or HCPC registration
Your Research Proposal (as detailed in the
Entry requirements section
).
Careers
Undertaking a professional doctorate will help you to grow professionally and personally. You will develop impressive skills in research, analysis, and critical and strategic thinking to help enhance your performance in your work. It may also open further career opportunities for you, where you can lead the discussion. By studying a professional doctorate, you will influence and shape health care practice and become an acknowledged leader in your field.
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions