Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/business-courses/business-administration-doctorate/

Doctorate in Business Administration (DBA) - Business - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Business
Doctorate in Business Administration (DBA)
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Doctorate in Business Administration
DBA
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Part-time: 4-6 years
Start dates
March, October
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Our DBA programme leads to a highly recognised doctoral level qualification, enabling you to build your research credentials while advancing your professional practice in management
Your doctoral studies will be specific to you and your working role: you will undertake independent research in the area relevant to your professional and academic development and advance your knowledge which can be harnessed to improve your own organisation’s performance
You do not have to put your career on hold: the DBA is structured to offer maximum flexibility, with teaching in short study blocks and a substantial research project which can be fitted around your work schedule
We equip you with high-level research and analysis skills so that you can integrate evidence into practice and become a more critical and reflective practitioner
You will receive extensive support from academic supervisors with specialist knowledge in your subject area – all within a truly international research community where you benefit from peer learning and networking
Adding the title of Doctor to your CV will make an instant impression, helping you to raise your professional profile and give added momentum to your career
Is a DBA the right choice for me?
As an executive doctoral research degree designed specifically for business professionals, managers and practitioners, the Derby DBA will challenge you to take your skills and knowledge to the highest level. It combines academic rigour with an applied approach based on your own professional practice.
The DBA attracts experienced professionals in senior and managerial roles who are keen to take the next step in their career development, to undertake impactful business research, and to add to the body of knowledge in their sector and profession. Many of our students have already achieved masters qualifications and choose the DBA as an alternative to more traditional PhD programmes.
Flexibility is central to the DBA. In the first two years, you will attend the University for scheduled taught sessions which are delivered in five short study blocks – three blocks in Year 1 and two blocks in Year 2 of your study- so that you can fit your learning around your work and home commitments. Throughout your DBA programme, you will undertake your independent research project with the support and guidance of expert supervisors.
This structure makes the DBA an excellent choice for international as well as UK students. You will benefit from being part of a dynamic research community where professionals from different countries, sectors and backgrounds can exchange ideas. It is a chance for you to gain global perspectives and build international networks which will serve you well in your future career.
Our research
The world of business is changing – and our research is changing with it. We aim to be at the forefront of the debate of how to build better business: the kind of business that works for everyone.
Find out more about our research
Find out more about our research
Advance your professional practice
The DBA allows you to investigate an important business issue of your choosing in great depth and apply your knowledge directly to the workplace.
The taught stages of the course help you to engage with advanced critical analysis and finesse your research skills, including how to design research projects and how to communicate your findings. You will learn how to synthesise ideas and concepts, drawing on the latest theoretical frameworks.
The independent research stage enables you to focus on a key challenge within your organisation or wider professional domain. You will explore how to solve problems innovatively, drive change and deliver a significant impact.
Our current DBA students are researching issues which are directly relevant to their experience in the workplace, covering themes such as project management, risk management, business strategy, services marketing, public sector management, cross-cultural management, talent management, environmental sustainability and sustainable development, corporate social responsibility, big data and artificial intelligence.
Our expertise
You will be inspired and motivated by an academic team made up of influential researchers, respected authors and experienced consultants. They are engaged in significant research projects and publish regularly to deliver fresh perspectives on the latest business trends.
Our Business and Management research is internationally recognised through the Research Excellence Framework (2014), and our expertise spans subjects as wide-ranging as behavioural economics, employee engagement, social media marketing, the green economy, industrial policy, supply chain management and corporate social responsibility. As a DBA student, you can also draw on specialist knowledge from across the University, paving the way for you to pursue interdisciplinary research.
Unlike many other DBA programmes, you will be allocated a supervisor who is a subject specialist at a very early stage in your studies, while you are still completing the taught modules and well before you embark on your independent research project. It means you will receive expert support in shaping your research proposal. In addition, a leadership coach works with each DBA cohort to assist students with their continuing professional development.
Sustainable Business and Clean Growth Research
Our Sustainable Business Research Cluster has developed a strong track record of researching how low-carbon and pro-environmental business responds to the clean growth agenda.
Find out more
Find out more
New Derby Business School in the city centre
We're building a new Derby Business School, serving as an international centre of excellence. The superb new teaching facilities will build on our established reputation for inspirational teaching and research excellence, as we shape the next generation of qualified business leaders.
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
The DBA programme begins with two taught ‘Theory for Practice’ stages comprising five core modules including a negotiated module requiring you to undertake an applied research project agreed with your DBA supervisor and the module leader. These modules build your skills in argument construction, critical evaluation, analysis and reflection, preparing you for greater learning autonomy as you progress. They also enhance your research skills and familiarity with various research methodologies and methods. The taught stage forms a core part of your doctoral training.
We also offer an optional module at the end of the taught stage of the programme if you wish to exit the programme with the MSc Business and Management Research qualification.
The ‘Independent research stage’ follows from the taught stage. This stage of your DBA programme aligns closely with the doctoral progression milestones culminating in the final examination of your doctoral thesis via viva voice by the internal and external examiners.
Stage one
Introduction to research (20 credits)
Designing research projects (40 credits)
Stage two
Developing the professional self (20 credits)
Negotiated module (20 credits)
Communicating your research (20 credits)
Stage three
Practitioner project (420 credits) – PhD thesis of 50,000-60,000 words
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Doctoral level study requires a great deal of independent study, equating to around 20 hours per week.
The scheduled taught sessions occur in blocks throughout the first two years of the programme and you will engage in:
seminars
practical activity
supervision
tutorials
work-based learning
One-to-one tutorials, typically amounting to 10-15 hours per year, are arranged between you and your tutoring/supervision team. You can access your tutorials via online, phone or face-to-face options.
You can also make the most of online resources through our virtual learning environment (Blackboard/Course Resources).
Showcase your research
We encourage and support you to present your research to a wider audience. Our annual research conferences – at both University and Business School level – are a unique opportunity to share your progress and findings, while hearing from fellow students and academics about their own business specialisms. There may also be the chance to raise your professional profile by attending national and international conferences.
How you are assessed
Assessments are designed to be broad, wide-ranging, flexible and innovative. They facilitate your professional learning and allow you to produce work relevant to your own specialism. The assessments will review your:
ability to apply and evaluate skills
theory development and application skills
literature review skills
critical reasoning
analytical and research skills
problem solving
use of self-reflection
demonstration of evidence-based practice
academic writing and language skills
You must pass all the Theory for Practice taught stage modules in order to transfer to the independent research stage. Assessment outputs include preparing a research progress review at the end of stage 2.
At the Independent Research stage, you are required to complete reports which act as progression milestones. The final assessment for the doctoral award is through examination of your major practitioner project and a viva voce. We provide additional support at this stage through mock viva voce examinations.
Throughout your work towards the DBA, tutors and supervisors will give you formative feedback which serves as on-going support and guidance. Formal records of supervision meetings will also be kept to provide you with additional feedback.
Who will teach you
Dr Polina Baranova
Polina Baranova is a Senior Lecturer in Strategic Management. Her research lies at the intersection of strategy, business and society. In particular, she specialises in the development ...
Dr Elnerine Greeff
Dr Elnerine Greeff lectures within the University of Derby's Business School, where she specialises in Marketing - both as her academic field and in support of businesses through various outreach prog...
Professor Carley Foster
Carley Foster is a Professor of Services Marketing and Head of the Centre for Business Improvement at the University of Derby. Her work is widely published, has been funded by several organisations an...
Dr Amanda Lee
Amanda Lee is a Senior Lecturer in Human Resource Management at the University of Derby. She teaches across a range of undergraduate and postgraduate modules and programmes.
Entry requirements
The programme seeks to admit highly capable individuals able to demonstrate motivation, interest and aptitude for doctoral level study with interests in business and management research. Both home and international applications are encouraged.
Applicants should have a masters degree in a relevant field. A good first degree may be considered instead of a masters
Applicants should have at least three years professional experience
Where English is not the first language, applicants may need to provide the minimum English qualification IELTS 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in each component). IELTS may not be needed where a degree has been obtained in the UK or another English speaking countries. English speaking professional settings may be considered
All applicants must be interviewed
Decisions about entry to the programme are made on the basis of application, prior education attainment, interview, professional experience and research proposal
Where English is not the first language:
Applicants need to provide the minimum English qualification IELTS level 6.5 (minimum 5.5 in each skill area). All tutorials, supervision and assessment are in English. Other substantial evidence of English Proficiency may be taken into account
Applicants may be required to undertake a pre-sessional English course at additional cost to ensure that they have a standard of English appropriate to this level of study. If applicants do not pass this course they will not be permitted to study on this programme
Find out more about our English language requirements
Potential applicants are strongly advised to discuss the programme and alternative doctoral study options with the Programme Leader prior to applying to ensure a best fit in terms of personal, professional and career aspirations.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Year 1: £7,800
Year 2: £7,800
Year 3: £5,700
Year 4: £5,700
If you continue your DBA studies after Year 4, you will pay Year 4 fees for each year you remain on the programme.
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
N/A
£27,800 for the full course
International
N/A
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
Additional costs and optional extras
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to online university library resources
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Students should Apply directly to the University..
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Additional information
All applicants must include a research proposal with their application
All applicants must comply to English proficiency entry standards as outlined in the entry requirements
Careers
Students choose to complete doctoral research for many reasons: you could be keen to take your professional development to the next level; to pursue applied research which has a meaningful impact in your workplace; or to add to the body of specialist knowledge about a particular professional area.
Whatever your ambition, the DBA adds prestige to your CV. When you successfully complete this programme, you will have achieved the highest academic qualification and will be allowed to use the title of Doctor (please note that some countries accept doctoral awards in different ways).
Our DBA students are usually in full-time employment, undertaking research in their own work context, and can use their doctorate as a platform for further promotion to senior roles and an enhanced standing in their profession.
As an elite member of Derby Business School’s alumni networks, you will also be encouraged to maintain your links with the University beyond the DBA programme. There is the potential to contribute to joint research projects and publications, become an associate lecturer or guest speaker, and support students following in your footsteps.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.