Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/education-courses/doctor-education-edd/

Doctor of Education EdD - Education - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Education
Doctor of Education EdD
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Doctor of Education
EdD
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 4-6 years
UK fee
£3,300 per year
(2025/26)
‡
International fee
£3,300 per year
(2025/26)
‡
Start date
September
Location
Online
This Doctor of Education (EdD) online programme is ideal for individuals working across a wide variety of education, training, public service, industrial and community settings
Focus on a major independent study which will help you develop professionally and personally in your working role
Gain high-calibre research skills to generate new insights for the benefit of your own organisation and the education community at large
Take a structured approach to studying at doctoral level, supported at every stage by an academic team who have won national recognition for their high standards
Fit your studies around your personal commitments: we offer a flexible route to the EdD, with a minimum registration period of four years, to a maximum of eight
Choosing the online EdD means you can study from anyway in the world and study alongside other students from across the globe
If you’re a working professional committed to extending your understanding and improving your practice, the Doctor of Education (EdD) is an excellent choice
Education in its broadest sense
Our Doctor of Education (EdD) has a broad appeal: you do not have to be a teacher, tutor or lecturer to benefit, although many of our students are. The programme is relevant to professionals engaged in learning, teaching, coaching, development, education policy and administration in a vast range of occupations and settings.
Our students work in education establishments, health and social care, commercial management and training, organisational development and improvement, business and the voluntary sector.
Research with real impact
This is an intellectually challenging programme which will stimulate your professional thinking. We will equip you to undertake a substantial, robust research project in the context of your own practice.
Directly relevant to your working role, your independent study enables you to create and interpret new professional knowledge, support innovative approaches and improve quality. It yields significant benefits for your organisation and your own potential for further career development.
Structured for success
The first two years of the programme are designed to build your skills and confidence to engage in doctoral level study and to research your professional field. Individual tutorials offer essential guidance to steer your progress and thought-provoking seminar groups enable you to share experiences with fellow students from a wide range of backgrounds. This provides a firm foundation for your independent research during years three to six as you develop your thesis with the support of a team of supervisors.
Academic rigour and expertise
Our online Doctor of Education (EdD) course is delivered by research active tutors and supervisors who have expertise across all educational spheres and regularly publish their work. They will keep you abreast of latest thinking and challenge your perceptions.
The programme draws on the cutting-edge educational research for which the University is renowned in the following areas:
Career Development and Employability
Technical and Vocational Education and Training
Inclusion and Special Educational Needs
Apprenticeship
Teacher Education and Innovation, and
Childhood
Our staff conduct influential studies on a range of topics from early years to adult learning, and we provide consultancy for government, schools and the wider education sector. This means your learning will be underpinned by innovative ideas which are changing the face of the education professions.
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
The teaching and research supervision phase are delivered entirely online. The two years of the taught phase of the programme combine self-study with asynchronous interactions to enhance your learning meaning, you will be given access to our instructional materials each week and you will complete the activities at your own pace. Our online learning resources include an online discussion board, multimedia, and a live tutorial. You will access all the study materials, seminars, and tutorials through our virtual learning environment. This will enhance your learning experience, as you will learn both with and from your peers and the academic staff.
How you are assessed
Assessments provide a variety and range of tasks which go beyond the requirements of the academic essay. These facilitate professionals such as yourself in articulating and disseminating your expertise.
Over the course of the whole programme, you will undertake the following:
An analysis of the nature of practitioner research within professional practice
A reflective literature review focused on your area of study
An extended essay justifying your chosen educational research methodology for your professional research. You will consider research ethics and an appreciation of contemporary philosophical debates about educational research
A viva voce examination of a professionally researched thesis
Pace of Study
This programme is only available part-time online and can be completed in four years. To achieve your Professional Doctorate, you will need to complete two 60-credit modules in year one and year two and an Independent Research for Practice module (420 credits) in year three and four, with a maximum registration period of eight years.
The academic year is made up of three 10-week terms, known as trimesters. The postgraduate taught 60-credit modules are therefore taken over the whole academic year and we recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete 20-credits per 10-week trimester.
Who will teach you
Dr Ihsan Foster
Dr Jack Stothard
Dr Marco Antonio Delgado-Fuentes
Dr Stuart Connor
Dr Jennifer Marshall
Dr Liam Maloy
Dr Alan Williams
Dr Andy Borrie
Please note:
not all of the academics in this list will be teaching on this course at one time.
Entry requirements
You will usually hold a masters award in an appropriate academic field, and have significant experience of work within your professional practice (usually two years minimum).
You should have high levels of competence in English. If necessary, this should be demonstrated by IELTS 6.5.
Your Research Proposal (containing the following detail):
A working title
One or more research questions
An indication of what the general topic area and main aim/s of your study is/are
The reasons why your proposal will contribute to knowledge (theory, practice, policy, etc.). The proposal should show there is a genuine gap in the literature, as the doctorate study will need to be genuine, original, and contribute to the area you are proposing to study
An explanation if there is a problem / gap in your proposed subject of study
The benefits that your proposed research will bring
A literature review that offers an overview in the specific area proposed to contribute to
A brief research design
Details of your proposed sample, data collection methods, methods of analysis, ethical considerations, and location of your proposed study
An overview of any relevant experience you already have in the areas you want to research
The process of selecting Doctorate applicants is very competitive. Please ensure you spend time reading on your topic area and existing research, interrogating the literature, and refining your proposal.
We are not permitted to comment on your proposal. Do consider sharing your research proposal with an active research staff or colleague to seek feedback prior to submitting your application and proposal for the online EdD.
Please note:
All suitable applicants will be interviewed. The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course. Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
Fees and funding
‡
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
UK/EU fee:
£3,300 per year
International fee:
£3,300 per year
About your fees
This figure would be the total cost of this course based on the fee in the current academic year. However, please note that fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase if your course lasts longer than one year.
If you are required to undertake any associate study or additional study as a condition of your offer for the programme, please be aware that the cost for this may be in addition to the programme cost stated above.
UK/EU fee:
£3,300 per year
International fee:
£3,300 per year
Please note that the instalment calendar for this programme is as follows:
Trimester in which course begins
Initial payment up front (25%)
2nd payment (25%) due
3rd payment (25%) due
4th payment (25%) due
Total payment made (100%)
Autumn
Enrolment = £825
1 November = £825
1 February = £825
1 May = £825
£3,200
Please note:
that any costs incurred as part of your Research Study are not included within your course fees.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
All applications will be reviewed by the University and suitable applicants will be invited to for an interview that will be held on Microsoft Teams.
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Proof of your qualifications such as copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
Your up-to-date Curriculum Vitae (CV)
Two references - these can be sent electronically and can either be on signed letter headed paper or sent directly from your referees’ professional email address:
a satisfactory academic or employer reference from someone able to comment positively on your capability to study at the level of the programme you have applied for. It is your responsibility to obtain this reference, we do not contact your referees
Your Research Proposal (as detailed in the
Entry requirements section
).
Careers
Our students choose this programme as a crucial part of their personal and professional development. You will gain impressive skills in research, analysis, critical and strategic thinking which will enhance your performance in your current role while paving the way to further career opportunities. The doctorate is often a stepping stone from a mid- career education professional to a more senior teaching and leadership roles such as, university discipline lead, senior lecturer, education consultant, director of training and development, senior curriculum specialist and instructional designer, and education policy analyst.
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions