Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/therapeutic-practice-courses/dramatherapy-ma/

Dramatherapy MA - Therapeutic Arts - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Therapeutic Arts
Dramatherapy MA
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Dramatherapy
MA
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 2 years
UK fee
£13,500 for the full course
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Britannia Mill, Derby Campus
‌‌Study a Masters course approved by the
Health and Care Professions Council
‌Graduate successfully and you’ll be eligible to apply to the ‌Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) to become a registered arts therapist (dramatherapist), as long as you meet the HCPC’s requirements. This is a legal requirement for those wishing to work as a dramatherapist in the UK
Enhance your knowledge of theatre in the therapeutic process, and explore the role of improvisation and the need to adapt therapeutic interventions to individual and group needs
You’ll conduct a major piece of independently researched work in an area of personal interest
Further your understanding of psychological processes and have the opportunity to develop your own therapeutic approach
Please note that this course operates a pooled admissions approach and had a final application deadline of 28th June. We may look to open another pool for our September 2024 intake, however, this cannot be guaranteed.
Getting your career ready
After successful completion of the MA Dramatherapy course you’ll be eligible to apply to the
Health and Care Professions Council
(HCPC) for registration as a dramatherapist, as long as you meet the HCPC’s requirements.
Throughout this course you’ll be encouraged to reflect on and consider the impact and consequences of your interventions. You'll develop the skills to be a self-aware dramatherapist, who can discern how the impact of self is central to your facilitation skills.
You'll be encouraged to be innovative, creating clear links with a wide range of theatre and improvisational methodologies. This will enable you to respond effectively to different client needs in a variety of settings.
You'll be encouraged to develop your interests and follow your inspiration using the dramatic art form to create original models, suitable for a range of Dramatherapy interventions.
Exciting career opportunities
Dramatherapists are employed in a range of organisations including schools, prisons, hospitals, day centres, hospices and private health providers, so there can be exciting and stimulating career options for you.
You’ll need to undertake a health screening at the start of the course to establish your fitness to practice.
Exploring theatre in the therapeutic process
By focusing on the use of theatre in the therapeutic process, you’ll explore the role of improvisation and the need to adapt therapeutic interventions to the needs of individual clients and patients. You'll be assisted in developing the skills required to assess the impact of your own values and beliefs on your pratice, and the effect it has on your clients and patients.
Engaging work placements
During your clinical placements you’ll have the opportunity to apply your theoretical knowledge and practical skills in a health and social care setting. You’ll be part of a reflective practice group led by a registered dramatherapist who will help you to consider and reflect on the work you do in your placement.
We’re proud to say that our courses are closely mapped against the health and social care sector. This ensures that our curriculum is up-to-date, providing you with the assurance that your learning is current and relevant. This does mean that we do have to respond to national changes such as government policy. As a result, some of the information about our courses may change. Please check the website for the latest information.
Natasha and Kirsty's experience
Watch the video below to find out what Natasha and Kirsty had to say about their experience of the University of Derby's MA Dramatherapy course.
View MA Dramatherapy - Natasha and Kirsty's experience video transcript
"The University, my placement, and the academic team all became the training ground that installed the confidence for me to believe in possibilities. To be curious, take risks, and to learn failure."
Serena Chauhan Jenkins, MA Dramatherapy graduate
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You will study the below modules:
Postgraduate Certificate
Dramatherapy Studio Practice (20 credits)
Art Therapies Theory and Research in Relation to Practice One (20 credits)
Dramatherapy Clinical Placement One (20 credits)
Postgraduate Diploma
Dramatherapy Experiential Group (20 credits)
Art Therapies Theory and Research in Relation to Practice Two (20 credits)
Dramatherapy Clinical Placement Two (20 credits)
MA
Arts Therapies Independent Scholarship: A Body of Work (60 credits)
Personal Therapy
As part of their MA Dramatherapy training, students individually complete a piece of original research known as the ‘Independent Scholarship’. This takes place throughout the second year of training and usually culminates with the end of the programme. Students are required to conduct an ethically sound research study in an area of Dramatherapy of their choosing. Students are supported throughout their research process with a first and second supervisor and ordinarily take part in regular small supervision groups.
Part of the ethos of the MA Dramatherapy programme at the University of Derby is to keep the dramatic art-form as a central tenet of the training process. As such, students are required to choose what’s known as an arts-based methodology to shape their research project. This means that they use the dramatic art-form as a way of exploring their research question and deepening their knowledge and understanding. Currently, the Independent Scholarship comprises three parts which are all assessed; a solo performance, a written critique and a viva voce exam. The images in this gallery are from these final performances which usually take place over a week at the end of the summer semester.
At present, this module is worth 60 credits and therefore represents a significant amount of the total training process. This module requires active engagement from the student and previous trainees have reported to have found the process highly illuminating, even life-changing at times.
Please note, you will be required to undertake a total of 72 sessions of personal therapy, as stipulated by the
British Association of Dramatherapists
(BADth), for the duration of the training. The cost of therapy will be covered by yourself, this is in addition to the standard course fees.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Real world learning is incorporated into the programme with the inclusion of two clinical placement modules where you will be invited to develop your dramatherapy practice with both individuals and groups. Currently, the programme regularly hosts international guest lecturers.
Who you'll meet
The programme is currently delivered by the following staff members and may be subject to changes.
Programme Leader Kate Smith is an HCPC (The Health and Care Professions Council) and BADth registered dramatherapist and supervisor, and has been for 14 years. The focus of her clinical work and research has been in Forensic Mental Health, in secure hospitals with risk reduction, addiction and trauma with people with highly complex mental health diagnosis. Kate has also worked in schools and in recent years with children and young adults in private practice. She also currently holds a role with the HCPC and is an active member of the BADth training sub committee. Kate has been programme leader for the last 7 years and is passionate about training dramatherapists and continuing to develop this programme at Derby nationally and internationally.
Eleanor Keiller is a BADth and HCPC registered dramatherapist who has worked in a range of clinical settings including the NHS and education sectors. Her dramatherapy work has involved supporting children in school settings, adults with mental health needs and people who have a learning disability. She has also taught on a number MSc courses including guest lecturing on the topic of Dramatherapy for Psychological Therapies (MSc) and Creative Arts and Mental Health (MSc). She has also been an academic tutor in Psychological Therapies (MSc) where she has supervised close to 30 students to completion. Eleanor is also a passionate researcher of dramatherapy and, as such, she is part way through her PhD at Queen Mary University of London. Her research explores dramatherapy process, specifically the active ingredients of dramatherapy for children and young people who have emotional distress (including symptoms of anxiety, depression and distress which follows trauma). Eleanor is also the chair of the British Association of Dramatherapists Research Subcommittee. She has received multiple grants to conduct research on dramatherapy. She is currently the Principal Investigator of a funded research project which explores dramatherapy with migrant and refugee communities; this project was funded by the British Association of Dramatherapist’s Charity.
Dr Clive Holmwood
is an Associate Professor in Therapeutic Arts. He teaches on the postgraduate MA Dramatherapy (Interim programme Lead 2024-2025), with responsibility for clinical supervision and theory & research modules. He is also a Senior Researcher within the College with an interest in interdisciplinary practice, drama education, developmental play and dramatherapy and arts in health and supervises doctoral students. Clive holds a PhD from the University of Warwick where his research focused on dramatherapy and drama education, a MA in Educational Theatre, and a postgraduate diploma in Dramatherapy (Herefordshire, 1996), and a BA (Hons) Drama. Clive is also a HCPC registered dramatherapist with almost 30 years post qualifying experience. Outside of Derby his clinical work focuses on children, fostering and adoption, mental health and learning disabilities. He has worked in the NHS and private and public sectors as a dramatherapist and also currently runs his own private practice.
Sophia Condaris is a HCPC registered dramatherapist and UKCP registered Integrative Arts Psychotherapist. Sophia has worked in many clinical settings with a wide range of client populations for over 25 years including in psychiatric hospitals, day centres, secure units, children’s units, prisons, therapeutic communities and schools. Sophia specialises in relational, action-based approaches to working with trauma and attachment difficulties, specifically with children and those who care for them. She has close connections with South Africa where she was involved in dramatherapy performance projects with vulnerable young people in deprived communities dealing with multiple and complex trauma, inequality and the effects of poverty, crime and violence.  She has also performed in transformational theatre with a therapeutic playback company. Sophia has been a trainer for dramatherapists, psychotherapists and child counsellors for many years.  In addition, she devised and ran the first clinical supervision training for arts therapists in South Africa.
How you're assessed
The emphasis of this programme is for you to produce original assessed work that is well-researched, current and largely reflective.
Assessments have been designed to be flexible and innovative, drawing upon the dramatic art-form as well as more traditional academic styles of assessment. Currently, students are assessed throughout the programme by submitting coursework (100%) including written reflections, case studies and presentations, a theatre review, literature reviews and practical facilitations. Our present final assessment requires you to conduct a piece of arts-based research in a methodology of your choosing. You'll be assessed by your creation of a theatrical performance, written critique (body of work) and through a viva voce discussion.
Entry requirements
You'll need:
A relevant undergraduate degree such as BA (Hons) Drama, BA (Hons) Theatre Arts, BA (Hons) Creative Expressive Arts, Health and Wellbeing. Or you might hold an undergraduate degree or training in other areas such as psychology, occupational therapy, social work, nursing and have current evidence of theatre experience
You'll usually need one year's full time (or equivalent) relevant work experience in a health and social care environment. This can be paid or voluntary and can include areas such as mental health, learning disabilities, older people, children who have experienced trauma, physical disabilities or working with asylum seekers. The more experience you have, the more prepared you'll be for the course
You must demonstrate sufficient life experience and emotional maturity to cope with the demands of the course as the training and personal therapy processes can be emotionally challenging
If your first language is not English, you'll need to ensure that you have reached the required standards for English Language as recommended by the Health Professions Council.
IELTS requirement is 7.0 with 6.5 each individual skill area or equivalent.
A Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) is required at the point of accepting a place at the University. The
Disclosure and Barring Service
was established when the Criminal Records Bureau (CRB) and Independent Safeguarding Authority (ISA) merged in 2012 and will now provide the criminal records checking service for this programme.
Interview information
Admissions information
Please note that this course operates a pooled admissions approach and has a final application deadline of 3 March 2025. We may look to open another pool for our September 2025 intake, however, this cannot be guaranteed.
Your portfolio
Following application submission, applicants will be asked to submit an online portfolio. Applicants who are invited to submit a portfolio will have two weeks to do so and will receive guidance information related to the completion of the portfolio.
The portfolio element of your application must be submitted in order for you to be shortlisted for interview.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to complete a satisfactory virtual interview. Non-attendance may result in your application being withdrawn.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£13,500 for the full course
N/A
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£13,950 for the full course
N/A
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
Additional costs and optional extras
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Resources for practical workshops, clinical supervision, some travel to placements can also be refunded
DBS check
Health screening costs
Students can make use of Adobe Creative Suite which is installed on all Macs in MS102 and MS012 at Markeaton Street and students are provided with an individual Adobe Creative Cloud subscription for home use
To support their professional and skills development, students are provided with a subscription to LinkedIn Learning which offers over 13,000 courses and tutorials, including professional accreditations, in a wide range of creative, business & technology disciplines
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Travel to and from placements, some placement related expenses are reimbursed if students spend more than £5 per day in travel to and from placement, approx. £150 per month
Minimum of 72 sessions of personal therapy approx. £3000
Optional costs not included in your fees
Any Additional academic books that students feel they need approx. £150
Professional HCPC membership required to practice. More details can be found
www.hcpc-uk.org
The British Association of Dramatherapists (BADTh) - optional but advised
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
When you have successfully completed all elements of the course you are eligible to apply to be registered as a Dramatherapist with the
Health and Care Professions Council
(HCPC), as long as you meet the HCPC’s requirements. You could be employed in areas such as schools, prisons, hospitals, day centres, hospices, private health organisations, therapeutic communities. With further experience, you could work freelance.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Course: Kate Smith (Programme Leader)
k.smith2@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 594198
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Other courses you might like
Creative Expressive Arts, Health and Wellbeing BA (Hons)
Art Therapy MA
Dance Movement Psychotherapy MA