Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/dxa-reporting-for-clinicians/

DXA Reporting for Clinicians - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
DXA Reporting for Clinicians
Professional Course
DXA Reporting for Clinicians
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Module details
Module code
7RD506
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
40 credits
Next course date
January
Duration
36 weeks
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Module description
This course evidences that you have addressed the learning needs in relation to DXA reporting. It enables you to maintain currency and safe clinical practice as required by local clinical governance procedures.
Regardless of your health profession you will be able to develop and enhance your practice as part of a multi-professional strategy and to utilise a systematic approach to reporting BMD and VFA results from DXA scans.
You will work closely with a service-based mentor to report DXA scans consistently and independently and review the role of vertebral fracture assessment. You will also review both technical aspects of bone densitometry assessment and patient management in relation to national guidance.
This course covers central DXA - it does not cover peripheral DXA or quantitative ultrasound (QUS).
You'll study these topics:
Normal and osteoporotic appearances on DXA images, including an understanding of normal variants
The clinical risk factors that affect BMD
Artefacts and confounding factors, such as patient positioning
The radiographic appearance of vertebral fracture on lateral DXA images
Treatment thresholds for different patient groups
Treatment protocols
The significance of changes in DXA results with time and the implications for treatment
The effect of treatment on DXA results
Quantitative and semi-quantitative vertebral fracture assessment, including fracture risk assessment
Common pitfalls of interpreting DXA scan results
Normal ranges
Records and record keeping
Radiation protection and IRMER
Terminology and writing reports
Governance framework
Who this course is for
You will be an experienced health professional working in an osteoporosis or DXA service that is either currently reporting on DXA scans or are about to commence.
Course team
Claire Richards
- Module leader and Programme Leader PGCert Bone Densitometry Reporting
Neil Powrie - DXA, Radiography
Dr Elena Kariki - Radiology, DXA
Structure, certificates and assessment
The course is equivalent to two modules at master's level 7. It lasts for about 36 weeks, but is dependent on the time you need to develop your portfolio of evidence.
You'll attend a minimum of two study days on campus and three study evenings online - which will support your learning, provide keynote lectures, case study discussions in small groups, and viewing of scan sessions. These interactive study days are an integral part of this course.
During the module you'll develop a reflective portfolio, where you have independently reported on BMD results and commented on normal variants, artefacts and appearances in the image.
You'll need to include a broad range of examples that reflect the diversity of your patient populations. Your portfolio will also include detailed reflective practice.
Your report should include treatment recommendations to agreed local protocols, which you'll need to include in your portfolio.
You must present an audit of your reports compared with those of a trained practitioner.
Your portfolio will need to be signed off by the trained practitioner who is your mentor in practice. You must ensure you have the support of a suitably appropriate mentor prior to admission on to the programme.
You will also sit an examination and produce an assignment on Vertebral Fracture Assessment.
This module can be used to form part of the
Bone Densitometry Reporting PG Cert
.
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Consistently report on adult DXA images to a recognised clinical standard, incorporating diagnostic, technical and patient management aspects in line with national or agreed local protocols
Independently provide a critical analysis and interpretation of management decisions on DXA images deriving from a range of scenarios that reflect clinical practice
Review the role of vertebral fracture assessment in the assessment of vertebral fractures and fracture risk assessment
Entry requirements
A first degree or equivalent providing you with the academic and/or clinical competencies to work at the appropriate academic level; plus:
Professional body state registration
Be working as a health care professional (radiographer, technologist, nurse or doctor in a bone densitometry service, with the support of the clinician with clinical responsibility of the service who will sign off the reflective portfolio)
Have completed appropriate IRMER training
Successful completion of the ROS (previously NOS) National Training Scheme for Bone Densitometry, or the Postgraduate Certificate in Osteoporosis and Falls Management or equivalent
You will need to supply a reference on your suitability to study at Master’s level (Level 7) and written confirmation of mentor support. Please ensure that you upload evidence of each of the above criteria, with your application.
Please note that your mentor should be currently reporting DXA scans, including treatment recommendations on the reports. This is so they can fully support you with your success in this module.
Fees and funding
(August  - July 20undefined)
If you are funding your own study, the module price will be confirmed shortly.
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
How to apply
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.