Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/education-childhood-inclusion-courses/early-childhood-studies-ba-hons-foundation/

Early Childhood Studies with Foundation Year BA (Hons)  - Education, Childhood and SEND - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Education, Childhood and SEND
Early Childhood Studies with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Early Childhood Studies with Foundation Year
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
X311
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Top
5
for student satisfaction
Childhood and Youth Studies - Complete University Guide 2025
Top
10
for learning opportunities
Childhood and Youth Studies - National Student Survey 2024
Top
10
for teaching
Childhood and Youth Studies - National Student Survey 2024
Top
10
for academic support
Childhood and Youth Studies - National Student Survey 2024
Top
20
for graduate prospects
Childhood and Youth Studies - Complete University Guide 2025
Top
20
for Childhood and Youth Studies
Complete University Guide 2025
Interested in our BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies but worried that you don’t have the formal qualifications you need? We now offer the degree with a foundation year so that you can enjoy all the benefits of this distinctive course and achieve your full honours degree in four years.
Start at foundation year stage if you have the ability and ambition to study for a degree but don’t meet the formal entry requirements to apply for the full honours degree
Progress to a career where you can make a genuine and lasting difference to children’s lives: this course is an excellent foundation for fulfilling roles in health, education and social care
Discover how children develop, learn and think from birth to eight years, gaining the professional skills and knowledge to meet their needs
Enjoy learning which is relevant, up to date and meets the highest professional standards, inspired by our multi-disciplinary academic team
By taking a foundation year, you will gain a firm grounding in the skills and knowledge you need to complete our full BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies. It provides an excellent introduction to a fascinating subject and gives you the opportunity to complete the honours degree in four years – even if you don’t possess the formal qualifications you would normally need.
From stage one onwards, you'll undertake a work placement for one or two days each week to gain valuable practical experience working with young children. This includes the opportunity to obtain either level 3 or level 6 practitioner status alongside your academic degree, should you wish to do so. Please note, for either of these options formal GCSE or Functional Skills qualifications in English and Maths are required. If you do not already hold either of these, we can provided funded options which can be completed alongside your undergraduate studies.
100
%
of students agreed that staff are good at explaining things
BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies - National Student Survey 2024
Top
20
for Childhood and Youth Studies
Complete University Guide 2025
Your first steps into a rewarding profession
There can be few more worthwhile careers than working with young children, helping them to reach important milestones and to develop skills that will last a lifetime.
On our BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies with Foundation Year you’ll consider the importance of early childhood from a broad range of perspectives and gain a solid understanding of how children develop, learn and think from birth to eight years.
You’ll build your skills in identifying and meeting children’s holistic needs and explore all the challenges and opportunities faced by early years professionals working in a variety of children’s services.
The role of professional and personal development is an important theme for this course. By spending a substantial amount of time on placement from stage one onwards, you'll be able to draw on your own practical experiences with young children.
We also give you the opportunity to achieve extra qualifications as part of your studies, such as the British Red Cross Paediatric First Aid certificate which is valued by employers.
Real-world learning on placement
You’ll undertake a placement for one or two days each week, building your skills in working with children and boosting your employability.
Thanks to our close partnerships with nurseries, children’s centres and other early years employers across the region, you will have the chance to experience working in different settings. As well as developing your observational and reflective skills, this will help you make more informed career choices for the future.
There is also the opportunity to go on fieldtrips to places such as the
Museum of Childhood
,
Think Tank Museum
and
Eureka Children’s Museum
.
Build a global outlook
We offer you the chance to apply for an international placement so that you can gain valuable new perspectives on the profession.
Other European fieldtrips have seen our students visit the famous Peto Institute in Budapest to gain insights into its groundbreaking work with children who have complex disabilities. Such international experiences look great on your CV, while enhancing your confidence and independence.
Experience and expertise
Our academic team is highly experienced and includes renowned researchers and published authors. This means your course is underpinned by the latest thinking and innovative ideas which are changing the face of early childhood studies.
We undertake important studies into subjects ranging from creativity for early years professionals to social constructions of childhood, from the pressures faced by new parents to ways of engaging fathers in early years settings.
There may even be the chance for you to contribute to fascinating research initiatives yourself. Our students have, for instance, worked with school children and community groups to draw up ideas for improving the play and educational potential of various parks in Nottinghamshire.
We also run annual conferences where you can share findings from your own projects with an audience of fellow students and practitioners.
High student satisfaction rates
You will receive plenty of encouragement and guidance from tutors who are approachable, dedicated and passionate about their subjects.
You’ll learn in our Kirtley Building which offers first-rate facilities for our Education and Childhood Studies students. It includes specially designed collaborative learning spaces and a large hall for practical activities and observing learning in action.
Explore your personal interests
The variety of optional modules on offer means that you can tailor your studies to match your personal interests and career aspirations. These modules could cover themes as diverse as children’s literature, family dynamics, health and inequality, child protection and children across the world.
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You’ll be taught through lectures, seminar activities and tutorials to support you through your assessments and group work.
How you're assessed
During your foundation year you will be assessed mainly by coursework, and with some in-class tests.
From stage one onwards, you’ll be assessed using case studies, essays, independent research, online tests, posters, presentations and reports. There are no exams.
Outdoor Learning Space
Learn how to apply education in an outdoor setting, using nature to improve the personal, social and technical skills of children.
Explore our Outdoor Learning Space
Explore our Outdoor Learning Space
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Emma Twigg
Programme Leader
Emma Twigg
Emma Twigg is a Senior Lecturer and Programme Leader on the BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies degree at the University of Derby.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
Additional entry requirements
An
Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service certificate
cleared by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this once you have applied
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
N/A
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
The initial DBS check
Accredited Paediatric First Aid training
Resources used during creative workshop sessions
Induction activities and visits Any in-class visits (Guest workshops)
All visiting speakers to enhance module content e.g. Social Worker, Health Visitor, Early Childhood Academic Discipline Area Conferences such as Early Childhood Studies Conference, Contesting Childhood Conferences, Education & SEND Conferences and Symposium, Careers Conferences
Placement travel costs that exceed stated amount per day (2020-21 stated amount currently £5 per day) for the mandatory days/hours required for the placement module (Level 5) and practitioner status requirements (Level 4-6) (policy guidance must be followed)
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Replacement DBS check if lost approx. cost £50
Placement travel costs that exceed £5 per day
Optional costs not included in your fees
Certificated Makaton training, British Sign Language approx. cost £295 which includes registration and exam fees. Students can pay by instalments.
Field trips abroad that offer enrichment opportunities – these are optional, approx. cost £430-£1000
You may choose to buy textbooks, journals, data sticks, stationery texts
Memberships to sports clubs and societies encouraged but not mandatory, approx. cost £17 for Athletic Union membership plus club fee and £7 for societies card plus society fee
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Careers
This is the ideal time to embark on an Early Childhood degree. Well qualified and dedicated early childhood professionals are now in demand across health, education and social care settings. This is a rapidly growing area of employment in the UK, with new opportunities emerging in the independent, private, public or voluntary sectors.
This qualification is your chance to shape and influence many young lives – and the value of the foundation year route is that you can start your study journey even if you don’t initially meet the entry requirements for the full honours degree.
Our graduates are now pursuing successful careers as early years practitioners and nursery managers. There are ample opportunities for promotion and progression to leadership positions in children’s services too.
You could also advance to further studies to broaden your career scope. Some of our graduates have, for instance, gone on to train as children’s nurses by undertaking a shortened two-year Paediatric Nursing qualification. You could also consider our exciting range of postgraduate courses, including the
MA Education
or
MA Social Work
.
Please note that this course does not lead to Qualified Teacher Status. However, if you’d like to train to be a teacher, you can apply to study our
PGCE Primary
.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Early Childhood Studies BA (Hons)