Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/education-childhood-inclusion-courses/early-childhood-studies-ba-hons/

Early Childhood Studies BA (Hons)  - Education, Childhood and SEND - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Education, Childhood and SEND
Early Childhood Studies BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Early Childhood Studies
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years,  Part-time: Up to 6 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
104
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
X310
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
The best bits
Be part of our learning community that advocates for the recognition of the Early Years Graduate and the role that graduates play in leading practice with children aged 0-8 years across all disciplines
Our new re-validated programme reflects contemporary issues such as advocacy for children, inclusion, nature connectedness, and sustainability
Our outdoor learning spaces will provide you with an opportunity to increase your knowledge and awareness of learning in the outdoors for children 0-8 years across social care, education, and health
You will be challenged to think critically about different realities and form your pedagogical judgments, bearing in mind the concepts of equality, diversity, and inclusion for the development of continued reflective practice
You will engage in a variety of placements over the three years. These can include settings in education, social care, and health provision. These will enable you to meet the Early Childhood Graduate Practitioner Competencies
You will have opportunities to focus on modules specific to your personal interests and career aspirations (subject to demand)
If you complete this course and meet the entry requirements for PGCE Primary, you will be guaranteed an interview to progress
Top
5
for student satisfaction
Childhood and Youth Studies - Complete University Guide 2025
Top
10
for learning opportunities
Childhood and Youth Studies - National Student Survey 2024
Top
10
for teaching
Childhood and Youth Studies - National Student Survey 2024
Top
10
for academic support
Childhood and Youth Studies - National Student Survey 2024
Top
20
for graduate prospects
Childhood and Youth Studies - Complete University Guide 2025
Top
20
for Childhood and Youth Studies
Complete University Guide 2025
If you’d like to make a genuine and lasting difference to children’s lives, our BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies is an excellent foundation for vital roles in health, education and social care.
There can be few more rewarding professions than working with young children, helping them to reach important milestones and to develop skills that will last a lifetime. Our BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies degree is your first step to a successful and worthwhile future.
Our purpose is to inspire you to become forward-thinking advocates of change and become sector leaders in the care and education of children and families.
You will benefit from the expertise of a multi-disciplinary research active academic team who will ensure your learning is relevant, up to date and research-informed.
You can broaden your experiences with opportunities including paediatric first aid training and the opportunity to carry out primary research which could lead to published work. You'll graduate with employability skills that will allow you to pursue further study or to enter a successful career in the early childhood graduate workforce nationally, locally or internationally.
Explore how children develop
You’ll gain a thorough understanding of early childhood from birth to eight years, exploring how children develop, learn and think. You’ll look at the importance of early childhood from a broad range of perspectives.
Our focus throughout is on identifying and meeting children’s holistic needs, so you’ll consider all the challenges and opportunities faced by early years professionals working in a variety of children’s services.
The role of professional and personal development is an important theme for this course. By spending a substantial amount of time on placement, you'll draw on your own practical experiences with young children to advance your knowledge.
Professional credibility
Our BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies course enables you to gain practitioner recognition if you do not already hold a practical qualification relating to the field. Please note, to gain level 3 or 6 practitioner status, you will need to hold a GCSE or Functional Skills qualification at grade C/4 or above in English and Maths. If this is not the case, we can provide funded options to undertake these, alongside your undergraduate studies.
A contemporary and relevant course, it is included in the Department for Education’s new qualifications list for settings that deliver the Early Years Foundation Stage for children. Our BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies enables you to gain practitioner recognition if you do not already hold a practical qualification relating to the field. We offer the following routes to the BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies:
BA (Hons) in Early Childhood Studies, on completion of Stage 3 (360 credits). This is an academic route and is academic only, with no full and relevant practitioner status attached to it. The Level 5 work experience (within the Developing Employability Module at Stage 2) links to the University employability agenda.
BA (Hons) in Early Childhood Studies (with Practitioner Options), on completion of Stage 3 (360 credits). This is an academic route which includes the level 3 practitioner status via assessed work placement.
BA (Hons) in Early Childhood Studies (with Graduate Practitioner Competencies) (360 credits). This is an academic route which includes the Early Childhood
Graduate Practitioner Competencies (gov.uk)
.
You’ll have a conversation with your personal tutor when you start your studies to decide which of these routes you’re going to take and the practitioner status you’ll graduate with, following completion of your degree.
Information about qualifications and assessed placements can be found on the
Department for Education
website and the
Early Childhood Studies Degree Network (ECSDN)
website.
It means that your qualification will be well regarded by prospective employers – and this is reflected in our strong track record for enhancing students’ career prospects. Latest statistics show that 98.2% of our Early Childhood Studies graduates were in employment or further study within six months of completing the course.
You have the opportunity to achieve extra qualifications as part of your studies, such as the British Red Cross Paediatric First Aid certificate which is an important asset for employers.
Practical experience on placement
Whilst studying our degree you will undertake a variety of placements which will allow you to develop your professional identity whilst working within the early childhood sector. Whilst on placement you will be able to apply theory to practice using a critically reflective approach.
There is also the opportunity to go on fieldtrips to places such as the
Museum of Childhood
,
Think Tank Museum
and
Eureka Children’s Museum
.
Broaden your horizons
Thanks to our strong professional links overseas, you’ll have the chance to apply for an international placement. It’s an experience which will build your independence, give you valuable new perspectives and provide an impressive addition to your CV.
Other European fieldtrips have seen our students visit the famous Peto Institute in Budapest to gain insights into its ground-breaking work with children who have complex disabilities.
Be inspired by leading experts
Our course is delivered by a highly experienced team, including influential researchers and published authors. It means your course is shaped by the latest thinking and innovative ideas which are changing the face of early childhood studies.
Our staff have conducted important studies into a wide range of subjects, from creativity for early years professionals to social constructions of childhood, from the pressures faced by new parents to ways of engaging fathers in early years settings.
You may even take part in fascinating research initiatives yourself. Our students have, for instance, worked with school children and community groups to draw up ideas for improving the play and educational potential of various parks in Nottinghamshire.
Our annual conferences also give you the chance to share findings from your own projects with an audience of fellow students and practitioners.
A vibrant learning experience
We pride ourselves on offering a friendly, welcoming learning environment where you will receive plenty of encouragement and guidance. Our tutors are approachable, dedicated and passionate about their subjects.
You’ll learn in our Kirtley Building which offers first-rate facilities for our Education and Childhood Studies students. It includes specially designed collaborative learning spaces and a large hall for practical activities and observing learning in action.
Students will also learn off site which includes opportunities to learn off site e.g. forest school sessions.
Flexibility and choice
If you already have appropriate qualifications and experience, you could start this course at stage two or three.
We offer a variety of optional modules so that you can tailor your studies to match your personal interests and career aspirations. These could cover themes as diverse as children’s literature, family dynamics, leadership, ISEND, health and inequality, child protection and children across the world.
Guaranteed interviews for our PGCE Primary
If you complete this degree and meet the entry requirements for our
PGCE Primary
, we will guarantee you an interview during your final year of undergraduate study (subject to places being available).
Places on our PGCE are highly sought after, so we recommend you apply as early as possible once UCAS opens.
Terms and conditions:
There are a limited number of places on the PGCE Primary. Once the course is full, applications will close and no further interviews will be held
Interviews are guaranteed for students who meet the entry requirements for the PGCE Primary, including GCSE grades, degree classification, experience and successful completion of the Skills Tests
An interview does not guarantee an offer to study on the course
Graduate level practitioner competencies
The University of Derby offers graduate level practitioner competencies for students studying BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies from Stage 1 of the degree.
The Competencies have been developed by members of the Early Childhood Studies Degrees Network (ECSDN) in consultation with students and employers, with an aim of
‘strengthening a graduate-led Early Childhood workforce that is responsive to workforce needs and improves outcomes for children’
(ECSDN, 2018).
Students that achieve the Early Childhood Graduate Practitioner competencies will meet the nine competencies through assessed observations of practice, practice-based tasks and academic assessment.
The Early Childhood Graduate Competencies are:
Advocating for young children’s rights and participation
Promote holistic child development
Work directly with young children, families and colleagues to promote health, well-being, safety and nurturing care
Observe, listen and plan for young children to support their well-being, early learning, progression and transitions
Safeguarding and child protection
Inclusive practice
Partnership with parents and caregivers
Collaborating with others
Professional development
'We are delighted to have been part of the development of these competencies and to be able to offer our students this important opportunity. These developments will enhance reflective practice, graduate employability and the progression onto post-graduate study.
The Early Childhood Competencies will not only serve to strengthen the practice of our students and their critical application of theory to practice but will also make an important contribution towards meeting our on-going aim of building a graduate led workforce for children and families.'
Carol Fenton, Senior Lecturer: BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You’ll be taught through lectures, seminar activities and tutorials to support you through your assessments and group work.
How you're assessed
You’ll be assessed using case studies, essays, independent research, online tests, posters, presentations and reports. There are no exams.
Outdoor Learning Space
Learn how to apply education in an outdoor setting, using nature to improve the personal, social and technical skills of children.
Explore our Outdoor Learning Space
Explore our Outdoor Learning Space
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Emma Twigg
Programme Leader
Emma Twigg
Emma Twigg is a Senior Lecturer and Programme Leader on the BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies degree at the University of Derby.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
104
A Level
BCC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
Additional entry requirements
An
Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service certificate
cleared by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this once you have applied
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
The initial DBS check
Accredited Paediatric First Aid training
Resources used during creative workshop sessions
Induction activities and visits
Any in-class visits (Guest workshops)
All visiting speakers to enhance module content e.g. Social Worker, Health Visitor, Early Childhood Academic
Discipline Area Conferences such as Early Childhood Studies Conference, Contesting Childhood Conferences, Education & SEND Conferences and Symposium, Careers Conferences
Placement travel costs that exceed stated amount per day (2020-21 stated amount currently £5 per day) for the mandatory days/hours required for the placement module (Level 5) and practitioner status requirements (Level 4-6) (policy guidance must be followed)
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Replacement DBS check if lost approx. cost £50
Placement travel costs that exceed £5 per day
Optional costs not included in your fees
Certificated Makaton training, British Sign Language approx. cost £295 which includes registration and exam fees. Students can pay by instalments.
Field trips abroad that offer enrichment opportunities – these are optional, approx. cost £430-£1000
You may choose to buy textbooks, journals, data sticks, stationery texts
Memberships to sports clubs and societies encouraged but not mandatory, approx. cost £17 for Athletic Union membership plus club fee and £7 for societies card plus society fee
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
This degree is your chance to shape and influence many young lives. Early childhood roles are a rapidly growing area of employment in the UK – opening doors to stimulating careers in the independent, private, public or voluntary sectors.
Well qualified and dedicated early childhood professionals are in demand across health, education and social care settings. Our graduates are now enjoying successful careers as early years practitioners and managers. You’ll also find there are ample opportunities for promotion and progression to leadership positions in children’s services.
Our degree is an excellent platform to broaden your career scope by taking additional qualifications. Some of our graduates have, for instance, gone on to train as children’s nurses by undertaking a shortened two-year Paediatric Nursing qualification. You can also consider our exciting range of postgraduate courses, including the
MA Education
or
MA Social Work
.
Please note that this course does not lead to Qualified Teacher Status. However, if you’d like to train to be a teacher, you will be guaranteed an interview for our PGCE Primary if you meet the entry requirements.
You could also apply to study our
PGCE Post-14 (Education and Training)
.
Charlotte Baker, Early Childhood Studies graduate
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Early Childhood Studies with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Education Studies (Top-Up) BA (Hons)