Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/earth-science-courses/earth-sciences-bsc-hons-foundation/

Earth Sciences with Foundation Year BSc (Hons) - Earth Sciences - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Earth Sciences
Earth Sciences with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Earth Sciences with Foundation Year
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
80
(September 2025 entry)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Earth Sciences are critical to the sustainable future of our planet and society by developing our understanding of natural hazards, sustainable development, climate change, energy, and natural resources.
By nature, this exciting geoscience course covers multi-disciplinary and interdisciplinary subject areas. It combines science with humanity-based disciplines such as biology, chemistry, geography, geology, informatics, natural and environmental sciences, geological sciences and physics.
You'll take part in practical investigations and develop an appreciation of a range of scales whilst looking at the wider societal context and understanding complex relationships. You’ll also develop an understanding of natural and environmental hazards, their management, mitigation, and adaption to these hazards, such as climate change, volcanic eruptions, flooding, and earthquakes. You’ll study ore geology and mineralogy and learn how to observe, describe, and interpret minerals, rocks (including sedimentary and igneous), fossils, and structures, in the field, as hand samples, and using optical microscopy. In addition, you’ll also assess the methods being used to work toward a sustainable net zero carbon future, such as carbon sequestration, green technologies and renewable energy.
Once you complete this degree, you’ll understand how the Earth works and have the knowledge of how it and other bodies and planets in the solar system formed and evolved over time by studying planetary science. This will instil an understanding of the Earth’s structure, interactions between the Earth, atmosphere, biosphere, and hydrosphere, as well as the chemical, physical, and biological processes involved in these interactions. You’ll graduate with the knowledge and skills to address some of the biggest challenges facing society today and in the future such as sustainable energy supply, minerals to manufacture green technologies, sustainable urban areas, clean and viable water supply, and natural hazard management and mitigation.
Global reach
This course is aligned to global commitments to enhance sustainable development and decarbonise and restore the natural environment which will place new expectations on industrial sectors, infrastructure projects and government policies. You’ll develop the expertise and skills required to meet the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and other international agreements and policies like the Paris Agreement.
Graduate with confidence
You will participate in day and residential fieldtrips to be trained in industry-specific skills such as mapping, surveying, observations and interpretations in the field, allowing you to gain experience applying theory to real world situations. Authentic exercises and opportunities to engage with industry will allow you to achieve a greater understanding of sectors within the Earth Sciences including the role they have in society and the environment. It also gives you the chance to discover potential careers you could pursue and develop the knowledge and skills required for these roles.
This programme is designed for you to develop transferable skills ensuring you’ll be a highly skilled graduate who is trained in scientific methods that are applicable to a wide range of employment opportunities both within and outside the Earth Science sector.
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You'll be taught by a range of staff who are experts within their fields and research-active, incorporating their passion and enthusiasm for their specialism into their teaching and research-led learning.
Teaching for this programme is designed to be on campus through lectures and practical laboratories. Where appropriate, teaching will also be delivered through tutorials and computer laboratories to encourage discussions and industry-specific software training.
Each module will have associated directed study such as further reading, preparatory work, group activities and finishing exercises. Fieldwork will be embedded throughout the degree programme for you to develop imperative observation, interpretation and field skills required for future careers. This will be in the form of day trips utilising the fantastic locations here in the Midlands, such as the Peak District, the variety of industry in the area and residential field camps.
You’ll also learn to analyse and interpret big data including climate sciences, critical mineral exploration and the green energy sector using global geophysical, geochemical and climatic datasets.
How you are assessed
There will be a wide range of assessments including coursework, presentations, assessed practicals and exams.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
80
A Level
DDD (At least one of the following subjects Geology, Geography, Environmental Science, but will consider other sciences and mathematics (or equivalent qualification)
T Level
Pass in Science
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however, if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 24, Pass: 21
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Due to the transferable nature of the skills you’ll learn, such as verbal and written communication, critical analysis, independent thought and problem solving, you'll be suitably positioned for a range of roles upon graduating.
Careers in the Earth Sciences cover a wide range of industry sectors including:
Volcanology
Geomorphology
Hydropower
Geophysics
Science policy
Palaeontology
Carbon capture
Erosion management
Oceanography
Engineering geology
Critical minerals
Museum curation
Geoscience research
Hydrocarbons
Teaching
Seismology
Geohazards mitigation
Glaciology paleoclimatology
You can also go onto further study and enrol onto our
MSc GeoEnergy
course, where you'll learn transferable skills to actively contribute to the global energy transition, address climate change and gain expertise to integrate emerging and conventional technologies.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
This is a new course so the data displayed via Discover Uni is for students studying in another subject area.
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Environmental Sustainability BSc (Hons)
Biology BSc (Hons)
Zoology BSc (Hons)
Earth Sciences BSc (Hons)