Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/economics-finance-courses/economics-ba-hons-foundation/

Economics with Foundation Year BA (Hons) - Economics and Finance - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Economics and Finance
Economics with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Economics with Foundation Year
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years (5 years with optional placement year)
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
L347
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Our
Financial Markets Lab
is the ideal setting to gain hands-on skills while experiencing the pace and excitement of the trading floor
This course is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), meaning the course is mapped against the skills employers are looking for and provides you with additional awards and/or exemptions towards professional body memberships
You’ll learn how to apply economic theories to businesses, markets, industries and countries using the very latest data and information services
To complement your economics knowledge and boost your career prospects, you’ll also develop broader business, research and analytical skills
Live consultancy projects with employers are your chance to solve real problems for real businesses
An optional placement year or summer internship will deepen your understanding and raise your professional profile
Opportunities for international study trips add an extra dimension to your studies: recent visits have been to Vienna, Copenhagen and Dublin
Top
5
for student satisfaction - Economics subject area
Complete University Guide 2025
Top
10
for assessment and feedback - Economics subject area
National Student Survey 2024
3
rd
for teaching - Economics subject area
National Student Survey 2024
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Specialise in applied economics
The BA (Hons) Economics degree will set you apart from graduates of more traditional economics degrees. Our emphasis is on developing forward-thinking economists who can be relied upon for their strategic vision and analytical thinking. You’ll not only gain a solid grounding in economic theory but also become skilled in handling economic data, completing research and analysis, and meeting the high standards of professional practice you need to shape an organisation’s success.
Practical scenarios will give you plenty of opportunities to strengthen your skills, so you could find yourself creating an investment portfolio, undertaking consultancy projects, taking part in business panel debates, conducting broadcast interviews or presenting your economic analysis at conferences.
New Derby Business School in the city centre
We're building a new Derby Business School, serving as an international centre of excellence. The superb new teaching facilities will build on our established reputation for inspirational teaching and research excellence, as we shape the next generation of qualified business leaders.
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Hands-on learning
Engaging with employers throughout your studies, you’ll develop the full toolkit of skills that the applied economist needs for business or organisational consultancy. You’ll solve real problems for real organisations, deepening your understanding of the wider business world.
We encourage and support you to take an optional year-long work placement or summer internship to give you a better understanding of how economic analysis can improve organisational performance and practice. Our students have secured placements in roles such as data analyst.
To broaden your horizons further still, you could take part in optional overseas study trips. Among recent opportunities, our students travelled to Dublin to gain insights into the work of IDA Ireland, the agency responsible for inward investment, and to Copenhagen to explore issues surrounding money laundering and international art fraud.
A visit to Vienna featured a tour of the UN Office where students had the chance to observe a live conference and attend talks by specialists such as the Director of UN Information Services Vienna, Martin Nesirky. They also heard from representatives of the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO) about internship opportunities there.
Specialist facilities and resources
Hands-on experience in the inspiring setting of our
Financial Markets Lab
will give you a whole new perspective on what it’s like to work at the cutting edge of economics. Harnessing the software used in financial markets worldwide and handling up-to-the-minute data, you’ll gain vital insights into financial market analysis and the fast-paced environment of the trading floor.
The lab puts a wealth of data at your fingertips, including company and director profiles plus analysis of current affairs from Bloomberg Intelligence. You’ll receive training from Bloomberg specialists, have access to their helpdesk and can even work towards the Bloomberg Market Concepts Certificate to complement your degree qualification.
The Bloomberg Financial Markets Lab helped confirm my decision to study at Derby. Throughout all my modules, using the Bloomberg facilities to study company data and markets has been detrimental in shaping my understanding of the course.
Jake Gonella
BA (Hons) Economics for Business
An extra qualification: the Futures Award
Our Futures Award has been developed specifically for our Economics students to showcase their versatility and professionalism to potential employers. It is an additional qualification which recognises any extra-curricular activities you undertake to improve your employability and career development. Such activities could include attending workshops on CV design and improvement; developing techniques for interviews, assessment centres or psychometric tests; taking part in networking events; or leading a small project within a student society or voluntary role.
Proud Economics student becomes award-winner
Economics for Business student Jake Gonella won a number of awards during the University Trading Challenge and has been recognised for his exceptional trading skills.
Read more
Read more
Professionally accredited
On successful completion of the degree you will also gain exemptions towards the
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants
(CIMA) qualifications, meaning you can achieve membership of this professional body quicker, accelerating your career progression.
Expert teaching
You’ll be taught by an enthusiastic and experienced team within a friendly, supportive learning community. Small class sizes allow scope for one-to-one advice so that you are motivated to achieve at a high level.
Our lecturers are conducting influential research into some of the most pressing economic issues facing society, from behavioural economics to public policy, the green economy to the economics of innovation and technological change. They publish widely, including one of the main economics textbooks used in universities, and their findings will enrich your learning to keep it up to date.
You’ll also meet and interact with industry experts – for instance, you’ll hear about latest developments in the City from our visiting professor, Trevor Williams. There are further networking opportunities through our Economics, Trading and Investment Society and our Network of Entrepreneurs too.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Real-world learning is at the heart of this programme, with the focus on solving genuine business problems as well as engaging with external experts to discuss economic concepts.
You'll learn through a compelling combination of:
interactive lectures
expert speakers
problem-solving seminars
group work
group discussion
workshops
case study analysis
computer lab work
practical analysis
At the start of the course, you will benefit from substantial direction from our teaching team. As your studies progress, you are expected to work more independently, taking greater responsibility for your own learning - but always with the support and advice of your tutors.
Examples of projects
As the culmination of the course, the Applied Economics Project module enables you to apply your research and statistical skills to a theme of your choice. Recent projects have seen our students exploring the role of sanctions in the economic performance of Russia; examining the potential economic impact of large sporting events; looking into contemporary issues relating to migration; and investigating the UK's housing market, international trade and productivity.
Showcasing your skills
You could showcase your know-how and raise your professional profile in prestigious competitions. Our students have scooped major awards at the University Trading Challenge, pitting their wits against fellow undergraduate and postgraduate students from leading institutions countrywide. The competition comprises a simulated trading market which tests students' abilities to strategise, analyse and present their ideas to a panel of traders and bankers in the City of London. There are opportunities to enter other competitions such as the IBM University Business Challenge and the CIMA Global Business Challenge too.
How you are assessed
You'll be assessed in a number of ways, including:
computer-based assessments
business reports
applied economics projects to showcase your analytical and quantitative skills
data retrieval and quantitative analytics using Bloomberg
computer-based analysis harnessing Excel and SPSS
poster presentations and reports to assess your research and consultancy skills
Who you'll meet
At Derby, you'll discover a friendly and supportive learning community, with small classes where you will receive plenty of one-to-one advice.
You will be taught by an enthusiastic team who are experienced in all aspects of economics and whose research will enrich your learning. They are supported by industry experts, including our Visiting Professor of Banking, Professor Trevor Williams who is Chief Economist at Lloyds Bank PLC.
The teaching team includes:
Melanie Powell
As well as teaching on this course, Melanie leads our MSc International Business and Finance and our MSc International Business and HRM. She is widely published and the joint author of a leading Economics textbook, published by Pearson Education and used extensively in universities. Her research focuses on applied economics, behavioural economics and financial market behaviour. As a teacher, she is committed to giving students a new way of looking at the world which nurtures their confidence, decision-making skills and a lifelong fascination with economics. She is the co-author of the University's monthly
Economic Bulletin
.
Dr Eugene Michaels
Eugene leads our suite of International Business programmes at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels. His focus is on encouraging students to apply economic reasoning and critical thinking. His academic interests are centred on behavioural economics and their implications for personal financial wellbeing (particularly pensions) and the application of behavioural insights to macroeconomic and business policymaking. He is the co-author of the University's monthly
Economic Bulletin
.
Dr Weiwei Yang
Senior Lecturer in Economics and Finance, Weiwei teaches various modules on the course. Her research interests lie in areas such as banking efficiency, market competition, corporate governance and corporate social responsibility. Her teaching philosophy is to inspire students to move from passive to active learning.
Dr Daphne Athanasouli
Senior Lecturer in Economics and Business, Daphne has research interests which span applied economics, public economics, corruption, business performance, management practices and e-government. She gained valuable consulting and research experience at the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
Dr Sayantan Ghosh Dastidar
Lecturer in Economics, Sayantan conducts research into areas such as international trade, economic development and public policy. He has published on various aspects of trade, economic growth and public expenditure in India.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Sayantan Ghosh Dastidar
Programme Leader
Dr Sayantan Ghosh Dastidar
Dr Sayantan Ghosh Dastidar joined the University of Derby as a Lecturer in Economics in January 2016. Before joining here, he was working as a Research Assistant at the University of Huddersfield. Currently, he is the Programme Leader ...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 24, Pass: 15
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Database usage within modules with access to Finance Lab for specified assessments, statistical analysis software
Some taster events - transport costs covered
Opportunities to enter IBM University Business Challenge or equivalent
Opportunity of part funded trips, optional with limited places available.
Optional costs not included in your fees
Printing
Textbooks
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
An Economics degree adds prestige to your CV and could be your stepping stone to a lucrative graduate training scheme or a well-rewarded financial consultancy role. Economics is among the top three subjects to take for delivering a 'professional premium' - the difference in salaries between graduates and non-graduates - of almost £10,000 (
Complete University Guide statistics for 2017 graduates
).
Economics graduates with an understanding of business and leadership are in great demand across the public, private and voluntary sectors worldwide. As well as roles in international business, consultancy and finance, you could pursue opportunities in government departments, development agencies, charities and not-for-profit organisations.
Our focus on problem-solving and practical economic analysis extends your career scope further still, opening doors to a much broader range of opportunities than with a more conventional Economics qualification. Some graduates go on to follow careers in areas such as HR, marketing, PR and sales.
Throughout your studies, you'll also benefit from our Personal Development Planning (PDP) scheme which enables you to reflect on your learning and develop your career ambitions. In addition, the BA (Hons) Economics features specialist career sessions for economists to help you build your CV and social media profile and to assist in your applications for placements, internships and jobs.
Further study
Many of our Economics graduates decide to take their studies to the next level with us. You can consider progressing to exciting masters programmes such as the
MSc International Business and Finance
or
MBA Global Finance
. You may be entitled to an
alumni discount
if you decide to extend your time studying with us.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Accounting and Finance with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Business Accounting and Finance with Foundation Year BA (Hons)