Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/economics-finance-courses/economics-finance-bsc-hons-with-placement-year/

Economics and Finance BSc (Hons) with Placement Year - Economics and Finance - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Economics and Finance
Economics and Finance BSc (Hons) with Placement Year
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Accredited by the Chartered Institution for Securities and Investment (CISI)
Economics and Finance with Placement Year
BSc (Hons)*
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
* This course is
subject to validation
✕
What does ‘subject to validation’ mean?
We are continually looking at enhancing our courses to ensure they are up to date and relevant. This means we may add new courses or update existing courses in our portfolio. As this happens, the courses are advertised as ‘subject to validation’ to make you aware that the course you are looking at may not yet be finalised, or is undergoing changes.
Any course listed as ‘subject to validation’ is in the final stages of approval. Validation is a rigorous process undertaken with academic staff, students, independent subject experts and employers to ensure the course is current, of high quality, and able to prepare students well for their future employment or further study.
Success through validation is not guaranteed, which is why courses are highlighted as ‘subject to validation’. In the event the course is significantly amended, or does not meet the necessary requirements for a successful validation, we will get in touch to support you in finding a suitable alternative, either at the University of Derby or at another provider.
On this page
Course description
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
120
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
L1PY
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
The highlights
This degree is accredited by the
Chartered Institution for Securities and Investment
(CISI), the largest and most widely respected professional body for the securities and investment industry in the UK
We help you build an essential toolkit for your career as a professional economist and financial analyst, including strategic decision-making skills that set you apart in the graduate job market
Our
Financial Markets Lab
brings an extra dimension to your learning, giving you exciting insights into working life on a trading floor
You’ll complete live financial consultancy and economic research projects with businesses
Our strong employer networks mean you will interact with industry leaders, economics experts and senior finance professionals throughout your studies
You may also be interested in our
BSc (Hons) Economics and Finance with Placement Year
.
3
rd
for teaching - Economics subject area
National Student Survey 2024
Top
10
for assessment and feedback - Economics subject area
National Student Survey 2024
Top
5
for student satisfaction - Economics subject area
Complete University Guide 2025
With professional accreditation and strong input from employers, this degree equips you to undertake economic research and analysis, handle complex financial data sources, diagnose problems and take the strategic decisions expected of an applied economist.
Your studies will cover a broad range of microeconomic and macroeconomic issues, quantitative methods, computing techniques and business performance concepts. We also give you a solid understanding of how various economic systems work, the impact of government policies and the performance of different economies worldwide.
Boost your employability with a placement year
You’ll have the opportunity to take a placement year to put the skills you’ve learned into practice in a real-world environment. We'll support you to find your placement and throughout your year in industry. Placements allow you to gain valuable experience to add to your CV, make industry contacts and help you to narrow down what kind of role you may be interested in after graduation.
New Derby Business School in the city centre
We're building a new Derby Business School, serving as an international centre of excellence. The superb new teaching facilities will build on our established reputation for inspirational teaching and research excellence, as we shape the next generation of qualified business leaders.
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Accreditation
Because the course is accredited by the
Chartered Institution for Securities and Investment
(CISI), it will stand you in good stead for achieving a globally recognised professional qualification alongside your degree. It is closely mapped against the Institution’s Introduction to Investment foundation qualification and all the practical knowledge you need to prepare for the CISI exam is embedded in our curriculum. This is your first step on the CISI qualification pathway and is also recognised by the UK Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It is particularly valuable if you are interested in a career in wealth management, operational investments, financial planning, compliance and risk, or stock broking. The additional qualification will strengthen your CV and you’ll also benefit from access to a wide range of CISI resources, networking events and professional development opportunities.
On successful completion of the degree you will also gain exemptions towards the
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants
(CIMA) qualifications, meaning you can achieve membership of this professional body quicker, accelerating your career progression.
Hands-on learning
The BSc (Hons) Economics and Finance is a highly practical applied degree. Every day brings a fresh challenge to broaden your professional outlook. You may find yourself analysing news reports, creating strategy documents, interpreting financial reports, undertaking research tasks, harnessing latest software, delivering presentations, videos and broadcast interviews, tracking your own portfolio of investments, or analysing information from Bloomberg on international markets and organisations.
Employers are closely involved in shaping our degree. They provide real-world case studies, practical scenarios and consultancy projects which will enhance the currency of your studies.
During my summer Analyst Placement at Centrica, I will be undertaking a real project to gain a detailed insight into life as an analyst. This has pushed me out of my comfort zone and I have already developed a range of employability skills.
Ed Robinson
BSc (Hons) Economics and Finance
Facilities and resources
At Derby you’ll discover cutting-edge learning resources to help you get to grips with the up-to-the-minute technology and information used by finance professionals across the globe. Our
Financial Markets Lab
has been established in partnership with Bloomberg, the international business and financial information leader, to enrich your learning.
Projects in the lab give you exciting insights into what it is like to work on a trading floor in the financial district. You’ll have access to analysis of current affairs from a wealth of financial data, including company and director profiles from around the world. As part of your degree, you can even work towards the Bloomberg Market Concepts Certificate to add substance to your CV.
Expert teaching
Our teaching team conducts significant research which is influencing current debates about key economic and financial issues. Our lecturers publish widely, including one of the main economics textbooks used in universities.
You’ll also engage with business experts, industry leaders and finance professionals. Our students hear about latest developments in the City from high-profile figures such as our Visiting Professor of Banking and Financial Economics, Professor Trevor Williams, ex-Chief Economist at Lloyds Bank PLC.
You can also immerse yourself in the wider business community – and open up new networks of contacts – by joining one of the University’s societies such as the Economics, Trading and Investment Society, the Business and Entrepreneurial Society and the Derby University Network of Entrepreneurs (DUNE).
Global thinking
International perspectives are important for the aspiring financial experts of the future. Our Economics and Finance team boasts strong links with academic partners in countries such as China and Spain which bring a global dimension to their teaching.
We offer you the chance to study abroad – based with one of our international partner institutions – for a semester or a year, usually in stage two of the course.
Alternatively, you can join one of our optional short study visits abroad. A visit to Copenhagen, for example, saw our students exploring different aspects of fraud investigations.
An extra qualification: the Futures Award
Through our Futures Award scheme, you can showcase your versatility and potential to prospective employers. Reflecting transferable skills, a Futures Award recognises any extra-curricular activities which contribute to your personal and professional development. These could include attending workshops on CV design and improvement; developing techniques for interviews, assessment centres or psychometric tests; taking part in networking events; or leading a small project within a student society or voluntary role.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You will learn through a combination of:
lectures
problem-solving seminars
group work and discussions
workshops
case study analysis
computer lab work
practical analysis
Ours is a friendly and supportive learning community, with small classes where you will receive plenty of one-to-one guidance. At the start of the course you will benefit from substantial direction from our teaching team. As your studies progress, you are expected to work more independently, taking greater responsibility for your own learning.
Additional support is provided through our specially designed personal tutor system. You’ll meet your personal tutor during Induction Week and have at least three scheduled meetings with them each year. They will help you plan your personal and career development as well as supporting your work towards the Futures Award.
We also have a diverse range of guest speakers to inspire our students and share their stories. Recently we had Nobel Laureate Professor Muhammad Yunus, who delivered a session on ‘The concept of microcredit’ as part of our 2021 Student Lecture Series.
Showcasing your skills
There may be opportunities to take part in national competitions such as the University Trading Challenge, where students pit their wits against each other in trading various financial instruments such as shares, bonds, commodities and foreign exchange. They also present risk strategy case studies before a panel of judges. The University has an excellent track record in this prestigious event, with students winning a series of awards and raising their professional profile.  Other well-known competitions that we’ve previously entered include the IBM University Business Challenge and CIMA Global Business Challenge.
How you are assessed
The majority of modules do not involve exams. Assessments are designed to ensure you can identify issues, decide how to collect and analyse evidence, come to reasoned conclusions based on that evidence, and present your findings via various communication methods.
At Stage 1: Computer-based assessments help you gauge your own level of learning and gain constructive feedback. Some modules involve more traditional essays and reports plus a mixture of individual and group tasks. You are also encouraged to keep a reflective portfolio.
Stage 2: Features further assessments of your individual and group work, report writing and communication skills, including innovative challenges such as a broadcast interview and poster design. Computer, portfolio and report-based assessments will focus on your professional analysis experience including data retrieval and quantitative analytics using financial data.
At Stage 3: Assessments centre on your research and consultancy skills. Through the Applied Economic Project, you will apply these skills to a live project involving a business.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
120
A Level
BBB
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DDM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
As a BSc (Hons) Economics and Finance graduate, you will have a powerful combination of applied skills which are valued across the public, private and voluntary sectors worldwide. This course could be your stepping stone to a lucrative graduate training scheme or a well-rewarded financial consultancy role.
You will discover fulfilling career opportunities not only in international business, consultancy and finance, but also in government departments, development agencies, charities and not-for-profit organisations.
Further qualifications such as the Bloomberg Certificate and the Futures Award will also help you stand out from the crowd in the job market.
Further study
If you want to take your studies to the next level, you can consider advancing to our exciting masters programmes such as the
MSc International Business and Finance
, the
MBA Global Finance
or the
MSc Accounting and Finance
. You may be entitled to an
alumni discount
on your fees if you decide to extend your time with us by progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate study.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Other courses you might like
Economics BA (Hons)
Economics and Finance BSc (Hons)
Economics BA (Hons) with Placement Year