Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/joint-honours-courses/english-and-education-studies-ba-hons/

English and Education Studies BA (Hons) - Joint Honours - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Joint Honours
English and Education Studies BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Education Studies and English
BA (Hons)*
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
* This course is
subject to validation
✕
What does ‘subject to validation’ mean?
We are continually looking at enhancing our courses to ensure they are up to date and relevant. This means we may add new courses or update existing courses in our portfolio. As this happens, the courses are advertised as ‘subject to validation’ to make you aware that the course you are looking at may not yet be finalised, or is undergoing changes.
Any course listed as ‘subject to validation’ is in the final stages of approval. Validation is a rigorous process undertaken with academic staff, students, independent subject experts and employers to ensure the course is current, of high quality, and able to prepare students well for their future employment or further study.
Success through validation is not guaranteed, which is why courses are highlighted as ‘subject to validation’. In the event the course is significantly amended, or does not meet the necessary requirements for a successful validation, we will get in touch to support you in finding a suitable alternative, either at the University of Derby or at another provider.
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
QX33
Start date
September
Location
Derby Campus
English at Derby is an exciting, diverse and challenging course that not only incorporates the close analysis of literature, but also considers the situations in which literature is produced and read. This means your studies will include the intellectual and cultural history of art, film, philosophy, linguistics and sociology, as well as contemporary cultural politics. You will be introduced to a range of cultural expression from across the globe and from diverse historical periods.
There is the opportunity to broaden your experience with work-based learning projects, study visits to cultural and heritage institutions, as well as lectures and seminars delivered by guest speakers.
Studying Education at Derby provides you with an intellectually stimulating course that will make you an authority on current education policy and practice. You will be provided with a solid understanding of education and educational equality, bringing together perspectives from history, psychology, sociology and philosophy.
Your Education Studies modules will explore the role of education in society and examines how moral and social issues shape learning. You’ll then be able to apply this practically on work placement opportunities throughout your studies.
Putting theory into practice
You’ll benefit from varied teaching approaches, including guest speakers from a range of industry backgrounds, real-world learning opportunities such as live briefs, and projects set by industry, so you’ll graduate with a wealth of experience.
Choose your pathway
Studying an Education Studies and English Joint Honours degree allows you to choose whether you major in one subject or study them both equally.
You begin this degree by studying both subjects equally in your first year. By the end of your first year, you will then decide whether you would like to major or minor in a chosen subject or continue to study them both equally.
BA (Hons) Education Studies and English
In this pathway you study Education Studies and English equally.
BA (Hons) Education Studies with English
In this combination Education Studies is the major subject and English is the minor subject. Please note, if you would like to progress to teach English at a secondary level this pathway would not be suitable, you would need to study both subjects joint or major in History.
BA (Hons) English with Education Studies
In this combination English is the major subject and Education Studies is the minor subject.
Inspiring Joanna to push for her ultimate dream
Joanna had always believed that her dreams were beyond her. No longer. Joanna has been inspired, challenged and pushed past what she thought was possible on our BA (Hons) Education Studies with SEND pathway. She now has her sights set firmly on a PhD and a career as an Educational Psycholologist.
Read Joanna's story
Read Joanna's story
Following a passion
Every day, Jack Holcombe sets himself a target. And it’s always the same: to bring a sense of energy, excitement and joy to the people around him. They could be his friends or the people he meets through his course or on work experience.
Read Jack's story
Read Jack's story
What is a Joint Honours degree?
A Joint Honours degree offers students the opportunity to study two subjects.
A Joint Honours degree is a great option if:
You want to study two subjects you’re passionate about
You’ve got a specific career in mind and want to create a tailored degree to prepare you for the future
You want to study a new subject alongside one you’re already familiar with
What you will study
The modules below indicate the range of modules you may study as part of this combination, however prescribed and optional modules will vary depending on whether you choose to study both subjects equally, or choose to major or minor in a subject. To find out exactly which modules you would study as part of your chosen combination please contact
jhs@derby.ac.uk
.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
On your English modules you’ll learn through a mixture of:
lectures, seminars and tutorials
creative writing workshops
project work
technology-enhanced learning
peer reviews and presentations
We also arrange visits to literary festivals, local and national museums, cultural heritage sites and other areas of interest for 'location writing' exercises.
For Education Studies modules, you will be taught using a variety of methods from directed study, lectures, seminars and tutorials. You will be taught by influential researchers and published authors whose work is shaping the debate about the future of education. Their research in education includes topics such as:
inclusion
diversity
social equality
online learning
pastoral care in primary, secondary and higher education
How you are assessed
For English modules, our assessment strategy is designed to produce confident, articulate graduates with a broad set of skills. There are no exams and forms of assessment include seminar debates, group presentations and conference papers alongside essays and longer research projects. We place great emphasis on developing your research skills, with independent projects playing a key part in the second and third year of the course.
For Education Studies modules, you won’t have to take any exams. You will be assessed through course work, including essays, presentations, portfolios, reports and case study analysis.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Michelle Appleby
Programme Leader
Michelle Appleby
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
DBS check if you are undertaking a placement facilitated by the course
Induction activities and visits
Any in-class visits (Guest workshops)
All visiting speakers to enhance module content
Discipline Area Conferences such as Education & SEND Conferences and Symposium, Careers Conferences, Early Childhood Studies Conferences
Placement travel costs that exceed stated amount per day (2020-21 stated amount currently £5 per day) for the mandatory days/hours required for the placement module
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Some course books for study on your English modules
Optional costs not included in your fees
You may wish to purchase optional textbooks or e-books to support your studies - costs for these are dependent on your choice
Printing costs of course materials if hard copy desired - approximate cost is 5p per sheet
All placement travel costs outside the one day a week in semester 2 of stage 2
Field trips abroad that offer enrichment opportunities – these are optional, approx. cost £430-£1000
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
This degree will open up a range of career options. However, we also recognise the importance of supporting you to develop the skills sought by employers to maximise your employability.
We will provide you with the skills to engage critically with the world in which you live, as well as developing your understanding of cultural difference and of the capacity of language to produce unintended effects and meanings. Such awareness is hugely valuable to employers. As well as teaching, graduates in English have gone on to have careers in journalism, publishing, arts administration and a range of other graduate-level professions.
Studying Education Studies offers a wide range of career opportunities, not only in education but also in social care, health care, careers and guidance, and the voluntary sector.
Our graduates are now enjoying success as:
higher-level teaching assistants
welfare child-protection officers
early-years practitioners
care assistants
community-learning facilitators
Throughout the course, we place great emphasis on improving your employability. We encourage students to showcase their future aspirations and explore the many career directions available.
If you’d like to train to be a teacher, you will be guaranteed an interview for our PGCE Primary if you meet the entry requirements.
You could also apply to study our PGCE Post-14 (Education and Training) or enhance your career prospects further still by continuing to study with us at masters level.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
You will typically study your two subjects equally at stage one, before choosing whether you want to major in one subject at stages two and three.
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
This is a new course so the data displayed via Discover Uni is for students studying in another subject area.
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Creative Writing and Publishing BA (Hons)
English BA (Hons)
Education Studies with optional pathway in SEND or TESOL BA (Hons)