Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/education-childhood-inclusion-courses/education-studies-ba-hons/

Education Studies with optional pathway in SEND or TESOL BA (Hons)  - Education, Childhood and SEND - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Education, Childhood and SEND
Education Studies with optional pathway in SEND or TESOL BA (Hons)
Undergraduate Course
Education Studies with optional pathway in SEND or TESOL
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years,  Part-time: up to 6 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
104
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
X300
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
The best bits
Education at Derby is ranked in the Top 30 in The Guardian University Guide 2024
A choice of pathways: Special Educational Needs and Disability (SEND) or Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL)
Learn from influential researchers and published authors
A strong focus on social equality and international learning opportunities
Opens doors to a wide range of careers
Top
15
for Education
Guardian University Guide 2025
100
%
of students agreed that staff are good at explaining things
BA (Hons) Education Studies - National Student Survey 2024
Education studies at Derby
Join an intellectually stimulating course that will make you an authority on current education policy and practice. You will be provided with a solid understanding of education and educational equality, bringing together perspectives from history, psychology, sociology and philosophy.
This course explores the role of education in society and examines how moral and social issues shape learning. You’ll then be able to apply this practically on work placement opportunities throughout your studies.
A global outlook
This course has an international focus and we offer exciting opportunities for you to travel abroad. Our programme of international fieldtrips has given our students first-hand experience of education in countries such as Morocco, The Gambia and Poland.
These international options provide you with valuable insights into different contexts and levels of educational provision as well as critical issues surrounding economic, social and cultural development.
Choose your pathway
You can tailor this degree to your interests by taking one of our two optional specialist pathways:
Special Educational Needs and Disability (SEND) pathway
This pathway has been developed in response to a growing demand for high-calibre trained staff who can work with learners with special educational needs and/or disability.
You will explore a range of SEND practitioner roles and the ways that government policy impacts upon such roles, in and out of the classroom. Our strong links with schools and colleges – both special and mainstream – mean you can learn from leading professionals working in the SEND field.
TESOL pathway
This pathway is ideal if you want to focus on English language teaching for learners in a variety of contexts. It equips you with the skills to:
Work with English as an Additional Language (EAL) pupils in a primary or secondary setting
Work abroad as an English as a Foreign Language (EFL) teacher
Work as a teacher of English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) in an adult or community environment
You will undertake observed teaching practice to give you vital experience and enhance your employability. We introduce you to various approaches for teaching grammar, vocabulary, reading, writing, listening, speaking and pronunciation. You’ll also look at lesson planning, syllabus design and assessment. In addition, you’ll be encouraged to reflect on your own knowledge and understanding of the English language.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You will be taught using a variety of methods from directed study, lectures, seminars, and tutorials. If you choose not to follow a pathway, you will still be undertaking a 12-day work placement in an education setting.
You will be taught by influential researchers and published authors whose work is shaping the debate about the future of education. Their research in education includes topics such as:
inclusion
diversity
social equality
online learning
pastoral care in primary, secondary and higher education
Outdoor Learning Space
Learn how to apply education in an outdoor setting, using nature to improve the personal, social and technical skills of children.
Explore our Outdoor Learning Space
Explore our Outdoor Learning Space
How you're assessed
You won’t have to take any exams. You will be assessed through course work, including essays, presentations, portfolios, reports and case study analysis.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Ruth Mieschbuehler
Programme Leader
Dr Ruth Mieschbuehler
Ruth is a Programme Leader for Education Studies
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
104
A Level
BCC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
Please Note: Whilst you are not required to obtain a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) certificate before starting this course, you will be required to obtain a DBS certificate before you start any placement where you will be working with children, young people or vulnerable adults. A DBS certificate is a compulsory element of the SEND and TESOL pathways. If you are unable to obtain a DBS certificate you will be unable to complete any of the specialist pathways (in SEND or TESOL) and your placement will need to be located where there is no legal DBS requirement. Payment for the DBS initial process is included in your course fees.
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
The initial DBS check (if required for placement purposes)
Induction activities and visits
Any in-class visits (Guest workshops)
All visiting speakers to enhance module content
Discipline Area Conferences such as Education & SEND Conferences and Symposium, Careers Conferences, Early Childhood Studies Conferences
Placement travel costs that exceed stated amount per day (2020-21 stated amount currently £5 per day) for the mandatory days/hours required for the placement module (Level 5) and pathway mandatory requirements (TESOL / SEND) (policy guidance must be followed)
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Print costs above the allowance
Replacement DBS if lost, approx. cost £50
Placement travel costs that exceed £5 per day for one day a week in semester 2 of stage 2 only
Optional costs not included in your fees
All placement travel costs outside the one day a week in semester 2 of stage 2
Field trips abroad that offer enrichment opportunities – these are optional, approx. cost £430-£1000
Memberships to sports clubs and societies encouraged but not mandatory, approx. cost £17 for Athletic Union membership plus club fee, £7 for societies card plus society fee
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Your future
You will have wide-ranging career opportunities, not only in education but also in social care, health care, careers and guidance, and the voluntary sector.
Our graduates are now enjoying success as:
higher-level teaching assistants
welfare child-protection officers
early-years practitioners
care assistants
community-learning facilitators
Our specialist pathways could lead you to roles such as:
special educational needs co-ordinator
SEND teacher
SEND manager
teacher specialising in English as a foreign language
Throughout the course, we place great emphasis on improving your employability. Our end-of-year symposium Voices of the Near Future encourages students to showcase their future aspirations and explore the many career directions available.
If you’d like to train to be a teacher, you will be guaranteed an interview for our
PGCE Primary
if you meet the entry requirements.
You could also apply to study our
PGCE Post-14 (Education and Training)
or enhance your career prospects further still by continuing to study with us at masters level.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Part-time
Other courses you might like
Special Educational Needs and Disability BA (Hons)
Education Studies with Foundation Year BA (Hons)