Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/education-courses/education-studies-top-up-ba-hons-online/

Education Studies (Top-Up) BA (Hons) - Education - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Education
Education Studies (Top-Up) BA (Hons)
Apply now
Apply now
Undergraduate Course
Education Studies (Top-Up)
BA (Hons)
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 2 years
UK fee
£5,730
(2025/26)
‡
International fee
£5,730
(2025/26)
‡
Start date
September
Location
Online
If you already hold 120 credits at level 4 and 120 credits at level 5 in a relevant area of study this online programme allows you to top-up to a full BA (Hons) degree with two years of online study.
The Education Studies programme is a long established and well-respected programme that has been running at the University of Derby since 2000. We are excited to now be able to offer the new online top up degree route for those who are seeking greater flexibility in their studies.
Top
15
for Education
Guardian University Guide 2025
The highlights
You will gain a broad knowledge and understanding of education and become an authority on current education policy and practice
Flexibility in your assignments allows you to shape your degree around your areas of interest
Our programme is delivered by a dedicated and enthusiastic team, including experts in the field
This programme prepares you for a broad range of roles
A programme with strong academic roots
The Education Studies degree is a carefully designed programme which aims to go back to the strong academic roots of a traditional education studies degree juxtaposed with a robust focus on contemporary issues.
‘Education’ will be examined through four core academic disciplines which form the pillars of the programme. These are history, sociology, philosophy and psychology. Together, these disciplines allow a full range of enquiry: the study of history allows students to consider how the past influences the future, sociology shows ‘what is’ and how that impacts the education of specific groups, philosophy encourages thinking about ‘what education should be’ and psychology shows ‘what we can be’.
You will also have the opportunity to investigate an area of education that interests you, in-depth, through a literature-based research project.
This online top-up degree is ideal if you currently juggle work and family commitments.
We also run a
BA (Hons) Education Studies (Top Up) degree
which can be studied full or part-time through traditional campus-based study.
What you will study
The course is structured into four 20 credit modules and one 40 credit module.
We will advise you of your study plan - the running order and availability of the modules - when you are invited to enrol.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
Teaching and Learning
The programme is taught by highly qualified staff with expertise across the four academic strands of history, sociology, philosophy and psychology. They have considerable experience in a range of educational settings.
The academic team are passionate about the discipline, and they work collaboratively to create and maintain high standards of teaching quality and an excellent student experience. They have worked in a variety of education settings and are engaged in research informed teaching.
The programme is delivered entirely online through our user-friendly student portal dashboard and intuitive digital learning environment. You will interact with your tutors and fellow students through a mix of virtual and live classrooms alongside tutorials. Group discussions and debate are held through forums and community spaces and the use of collaborative tools such as wikis for group projects and assignments. Digital texts, ebooks, journals, databases and more are available electronically via our library.
Pace of study
The academic year is made up of three 10-week terms, known as trimesters. We recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete one 20-credit module over a 10-week trimester.
Assessment method
This course is assessed through 100% coursework with a range of methods, such as academic posters, essays, a literature-based project and pre-recorded presentations.
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Who will teach you
Jade Murden
Programme Leader
Jade Murden
Jade is a senior lecturer on the Education Studies programme.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You’ll need:
An HND or Foundation Degree in a relevant subject (equivalent of 240 credits)
Alternatively, 120 credits at level 5 and evidence of significant work and life experience may be taken into consideration upon application
English language qualifications
If English is not your first language, or you have not successfully completed your highest level of qualification in English, you will need an English language qualification. For this course you will need at least one of the following:
IELTS (International English Language Testing System) 6.0 (with 5.5 in each skills test)
For international students, if you do not hold IELTS, we will accept the following:
12 English Language credits at Level 2 from a pre-2014 Access to HE Diploma
Cambridge English Scale: B2
International GCE O-Level English Language: Grade C
International GCSE English/English as a Second Language: Grade C
Functional Skills Level 2 English
Find out more about our English language requirements
Exemptions
Exemptions can be made on the basis of prior academic study, professional qualifications or professional experience. Students that have already studied at another institution, completed a training course or have work experience which appears equivalent to one or more modules of this programme, may be able to translate this prior learning into credits towards course modules so that they do not have to study them again. This is called
recognition of prior learning or RPL
.
Fees and funding
‡
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£955
Four 20-credit modules and one 40 credit module
£5,730
About your fees
This figure would be the total cost of this course based on the fee in the current academic year. However, please note that fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase if your course lasts longer than one year.
If you are required to undertake any associate study or additional study as a condition of your offer for the programme, please be aware that the cost for this may be in addition to the programme cost stated above.
Flexible payment plans available
Choose from
two payment plan options
:
Pay monthly and only for the modules you are studying
Pay your full course fees upfront and avoid annual increases
Undergraduate funding options
Depending on where you are from in the UK or EU, and on your pace of study, you may be eligible for an
undergraduate student loan
. Accessible through Student Finance, this is a non-income based loan to meet the cost of tuition fees.
If you are considering applying for a student loan, please also see our additional guidance on
Loans for Online Students
.
If you already hold an honours degree, and you are looking to re-skill or up-skill, you may still be eligible for a loan to study this course.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Current CV
Written reference supplied on headed paper from either a manager, supervisor, tutor or teacher
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Application deadlines
All of our online courses have set start dates throughout the year. We require time to review your application and get back to you with a response before your course starts. Take a look at
information regarding applying for an online course
to see full details of deadlines and term dates.
Careers
This programme is ideal for anyone currently working, or intending to work with children, young people, or adults in educational roles. However, graduates have also gained employment across health, social care, business and the third sector. It is suitable for those wishing to broaden their skills and career by taking additional qualifications. Options for further online study include:
MA Education
Doctor of Education (EdD)
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
Special Educational Needs and Disability (Top-Up) BA (Hons)
Early Childhood Studies BA (Hons)