Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/teacher-training-courses/education-integrated-masters/

Education with Qualified Teacher Status Integrated Masters (MEdu) - Teacher Training - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Teacher Training
Education with Qualified Teacher Status Integrated Masters (MEdu)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Education with Qualified Teacher Status Integrated Masters
(MEdu)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
120
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
XX10
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Achieve an integrated masters degree and the recommendation for Qualified Teacher Status on this innovative new teaching course
Undertake varied school placements to develop your professional skills
Prepare for future leadership roles by gaining problem solving and advanced research skills at master's level
Choose from a range of curriculum enhancement options to tailor the course to your interests and career ambitions
Learn from our passionate and experienced team who are committed to helping you become the best teacher you can be.
You may also be interested in our three-year
BEd (Hons) Primary Education with Qualified Teacher Status
.
Ofsted
rating of 'Outstanding' for Primary, Secondary and Post-14 Further Education and Skills
Ofsted 2023/24
Outstanding at teaching the teachers,
our 'Outstanding' Ofsted rating
speaks for itself.
What is an integrated masters?
Our four-year Integrated Masters in Education (MEdu) (in curriculum enhancement) with Qualified Teacher Status combines undergraduate and masters level study, providing you with the opportunity to develop advanced research skills. It is an ideal way to fund postgraduate study, as student loan funding is available for all four years of your full-time study.
In your third and fourth year, you will study masters level modules that will develop your ability to address complex issues and hone your critical thinking skills. You will also be able to select a curriculum enhancement which will be named on your degree.
The ideal introduction to teaching and academic thinking
Our new MEdu with Qualified Teacher Status builds on the strong reputation of our BEd (Hons) Primary Education with Qualified Teacher Status. This course will prepare you for the practical demands of primary teaching, informed by critical awareness of current issues and underpinned by your own research.
You will combine school-based and university-based training, supported by our partnership of quality assured primary, infant, junior, middle and special schools. Graduating with our MEdu with Qualified Teacher Status will put you in an attractive position for career development.
This course aims to:
Develop outstanding teachers within the primary age phase who are resilient, critical, and reflective classroom practitioners, and who have the confidence to challenge policy, practice and ways of teaching
Equip you with advanced teaching and academic skills to support professional and transformative practice that is inclusive and sensitive to the learning needs of children to ensure good outcomes for all
Foster an inquiry based approach to understanding of methods of teaching, subject knowledge and skills
Develop an understanding of inspirational and innovative classroom practice to motivate, challenge and empower learners
Establish your personal and professional philosophy of education which will underpin practice
Harness knowledge, skills and understanding to effectively lead, manage and work collaboratively with other professionals, agencies and the wider community to ensure the wellbeing and holistic development of all learners
Enable you to focus on a particular aspect of a broader subject area through curriculum leadership and management modules, fostering skills in a specialised area of practice
Develop a rigorous approach to the interrogation of complex educational issues through a personalised dissertation, utilising a range of techniques and research methods
Gain an in-depth knowledge and understanding of the discipline informed by current scholarship and research, including critical awareness of current issues and developments in the subject.
Rich and varied placements
We’re passionate about preparing you for a rewarding career in teaching. You’ll undertake a placement in a different school during each year of the course. Throughout these placements, experienced teachers will provide ongoing mentor support.
To gain an understanding of the whole primary phase, you’ll build your skills working with different year groups. You will also have the opportunity to undertake a placement in a special educational needs setting to allow you to appreciate and respond to the diverse needs of children.
Our dedicated Placement Unit will help you to find the right settings and opportunities, drawing on our partnerships with around 400 schools across the region.
‘Brilliant’ teaching fully justifies university’s gold award, says Amy
Picking the right university is one of the most difficult decisions of a young person’s life. Our student Amy Hill’s choice was swayed by our Teaching Excellence Framework gold award.
Read Amy's story
Read Amy's story
Curriculum enhancement
You’ll have the opportunity to tailor the course to your interests and career aspirations. At the beginning of your studies, you will gain a broad foundation of knowledge and as the course progress, you will be able to select a curriculum enhancement. Possible options may include English, Mathematics, Science and Computing, Humanities, Creative Arts, Primary Foreign Languages, SEND and Physical Activity. You will also conduct a masters level dissertation where you will research an area of your own interest in depth.
In the fourth year, the Curriculum Leadership and Management module builds on your stage three curriculum enhancement. You’ll develop your subject specialism further and focus on subject and curriculum leadership.
Learning beyond the classroom
Social justice lies at the heart of the course so we encourage our students to give something back to the local community. You’ll be able to take part in community projects working with children and staff in settings such as charities, galleries, museums and schools.
A welcoming community
We pride ourselves on offering a friendly, welcoming learning environment where you will receive plenty of guidance and encouragement. Our approachable teaching team are dedicated and passionate about their subjects. You’ll be taught by influential researchers and published authors whose work is helping to shape the future of the teaching profession. Visiting specialists will also deliver thought-provoking guest lectures.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Supported by expert colleagues, you’ll learn through lectures, workshops, seminars, tutorials, guest speakers, and creative partners. School placements are a vital part of your development, and you’ll also have the opportunity to broaden your experiences through museum visits, overseas school visits, and visits to special educational needs settings, early years and Key Stage 3 settings.
Work placements
During the course, you'll spend approximately 36 weeks on placement in a number of different schools. This will include a mixture of placements from EYFS (Early Years Foundation Stage) through to the end of Key Stage 2. During this time you will be supported by mentors and subject specialists.
How you're assessed
There are no exams, so you’ll be assessed through essays, personal reflections, presentations, posters, reports, tests, and audits. During the first three years of the course, you will undertake an assessed placement. In your final year, your placement will not be assessed.
Since joining the course, we have been presented with so many amazing opportunities like trips, societies and clubs and my placements have been an amazing opportunity to get a feel for my future lifestyle.
Vanti Rabidia
MEdu Primary Education student
Outdoor Learning Space
Learn how to apply education in an outdoor setting, using nature to improve the personal, social and technical skills of children.
Explore our Outdoor Learning Space
Explore our Outdoor Learning Space
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Lynsey Meakin
Programme Leader
Lynsey Meakin
As a Lecturer of Education in the Institute of Education, Lynsey delivers initial teacher training to trainee teachers on curriculum design and development; research-informed practice; inclusive practice and innovative 21st-century tea...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
120
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE (or equivalent) Maths, English Language and a Science at Grade 4/C or above, (there are currently a range of equivalences which can be accepted. Please contact our Admissions team if you need clarification).
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
A reference is required in support of your application. If applying via UCAS then this
must be submitted from a professional email address. This can be from a
school/College or previous employer. If applicants are applying directly then this must
be supplied as a PDF on official letterhead and must be signed and dated.
All qualifications will need to be certified from the awarding boards. Copies can be
accepted but all relevant qualifications will need to verified in person either at
interview or at enrolment or a set date that will be confirmed once enrolment has
been completed.
Photographic ID is also required and must be verified in person either at interview or
enrolment. We can accept Passports/Driving License/Provisional Driving License.
A personal statement is mandatory for these courses and must indicate why you wish
to study the course in detail and must be specific to education.
Additional entry requirements
Interview: Yes
view interview details
An
Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service certificate
cleared by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this once you have applied
A
Prohibition List check
will automatically be carried out after Firm acceptance of an offer has been received
An
Occupational Health Assessment
and Clearance by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this when required
English language requirements
IELTS: 7.0 (with at least 6.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Interview preparation/supporting job applications
Initial DBS check
Students have a range of placement opportunities with a trained mentor and School Link Tutor
Students have a number of placements, in different schools with different age groups: Year 1 Placement - 8 week placement; Year 2 Placement - 8 week placement; Year 2 SEN placement; Year 2 alternative setting placement; Year 3 Placement – 9 week
A final school experience during your master’s year of study, focusing on leadership and your research study
Reimbursement of travel costs, for all assessed placements, over the first £5, per day, of travel to placement
Extracurricular and enhancement opportunities
Dedicated personal, professional, academic tutor to support you throughout your studies
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
You may choose to buy textbooks, journals, data sticks, stationery texts
Replacement DBS if lost approx. cost £50
Students are asked to pay up to the first £5 per day of their travel to placement
All travel costs to non-assessed placements
Travel to/parking at settings hosting activities
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
When you graduate, you'll be ready to teach in a primary school. As a newly qualified Early Career Teacher with an integrated masters degree, you will be prepared for future leadership roles - the insights into curriculum management gained on the course will position you to take responsibility for subject areas early in your career.
Our Early Career Teachers are highly regarded in the education sector and many of our graduates go on to secure jobs in schools where they undertook their placements.
You will also benefit from our continued support as you begin your career. We offer our Early Career Teachers a range of resources, subject updates, events, conferences and development opportunities to aid your transition into professional practice.
You may also wish to continue your studies on our
Doctor of Education
.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
This is a new course so the data displayed via Discover Uni is for students studying in another subject area.
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Primary Education with Qualified Teacher Status BEd (Hons)
PGCE Primary with Qualified Teacher Status
Primary (Provider-Led, School-based - with Qualified Teacher Status
Learn more about
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion at the University of Derby