Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/teacher-training-courses/education-non-qts-pg-cert/

Education (Non-QTS) PG Cert - Teacher Training - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Teacher Training
Education (Non-QTS) PG Cert
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Education (Non-QTS)
PGCE
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Learn with university led training sessions with dedicated primary or secondary specialist tutor
Develop your subject specialism and your understanding of teaching children from wide-ranging backgrounds
Choose a route that matches your career aspirations
Be inspired by our team of dedicated, friendly tutors who are renowned internationally for high quality teaching and research
Take your career prospects to the next level: at the end of this course, you will receive 60 credits towards a masters degree
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You'll study modules such as:
Education learning theories and philosophy
Engaging and motivating diverse learners: understanding behaviour
Developing subject leadership (curriculum and subject pedagogy focus).
However, as all modules are ‘through’ modules, this may be revised in line with needs of the provider.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You will learn from face-to-face, blended and tutor-led delivery, allowing you to combine theory and practice in a situated learning environment.
Tutors have a wide variety of experience within the sector and can tailor sessions to reflect issues, agendas and priorities, enabling a flexible and responsive curriculum. The taught sessions are complemented by directed and private study done in your own time.
Work based practical experience underpins the framework at every stage. Experiential, individualised, and self-directed learning and teaching strategies will be used to enable you to develop personal, professional and transferable skills. There are elements of curriculum-based research embedded within the programme, allowing you to research current practice in teaching and learning.
How you're assessed
Assessment throughout the programme is through 100% coursework. The assessment methods for this programme aims to allow you to produce assignments that are current, professionally reflective and innovative. They have therefore been designed to be broad, wide ranging and flexible, facilitating inter-professional learning and allowing you to produce work relevant to your own areas of interest within your phase of education.
Who will teach you
Grace Hoskins
Programme Leader
Grace Hoskins
Grace is a senior lecturer in Initial Teacher Education, Programme Leader for PGCE SCITT non QTS and Programme Leader for Provider-Led, School-Based Secondary PGCE with QTS
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
An undergraduate degree typically 2:2 or above
A place on a QTS programme with a SCITT provider who uses the University of Derby as their academic provider for PGCE
You can only apply for this course via your QTS SCITT provider
For admissions enquiries or if you are a SCITT provider and are interested in our PGCE for your trainees, please contact Programme Leader, Grace Hoskins
g.hoskins@derby.ac.uk
.
Fees and funding
Fees will be outlined in the contract with your QTS provider.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Careers
There are few professions as important and satisfying as teaching. Successful completion of this course gives you the ideal springboard into a worthwhile career: a PGCE, Qualified Teacher Status, 60 credits at masters level and substantial practical experience.
In a profession with lots of opportunities for career progression, we also give you a stepping stone towards a masters degree. With your 60 credits at masters level, you can ‘fast track’ to stage two of a masters degree and accelerate your professional development. Our  is an excellent option, especially if you have your sights set on more senior roles such as head teacher or deputy head teacher.
As an early career teacher, you can also benefit from the University’s continuing support as you take your career forward. We offer a range of resources, subject updates, events, conferences and development opportunities to ease your transition into professional practice.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Learn more about
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion at the University of Derby