Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/education-courses/education-ma-workplace-contract/

Education (Workplace Contract) MA - Education - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Education
Education (Workplace Contract) MA
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Education (Workplace Contract)
MA
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Study options
Part-time: To be agreed with a senior leader in your institution
UK fee
£670 per 20 credits
(2024/25)
Start date
See below
†
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
A workplace contract means that we will deliver our MA Education programme to a group of between 15 and 20 staff at your chosen venue. It enables you to tailor the focus of your programme of study directly to the needs of your organisation and your development priorities. Staff develop knowledge and skills that can be directly applied to their job role, enhancing their professional practice and creating a positive impact on teaching and student learning.
Using our MA Education programme structure as an overarching framework we will work in partnership with your organisation to develop content that meets your specific needs and objectives, creating a programme that aims to deliver both immediate and sustained impact.
Our wide range of modules mean you can select the subject areas that your organisation wishes to focus on. Learners will benefit personally and professionally, whilst also gaining a valuable postgraduate award.
You may be looking to:
enrich student engagement
improve achievement levels
develop creative approaches to teaching and learning activities
increase staff collaboration
improve leadership skills and support succession planning.
Learners will qualify with either an MA Education, or in one of the following specialist pathways:
MA Education: Early Childhood
MA Education: Teaching English for Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL)
MA Education: Leadership and Management
MA Education: Inclusion and Special Educational Needs and Disability
Your bespoke programme is delivered through a contract between your institution and the College of Education which facilitates the programme on your site or at the University. The staff who study the programme become full students of the University and will have access to all of our resources and support.
As an educational institution, you can choose to follow the whole MA Education programme, or a combination of individual modules. We design the study programme to fit around your timetable; workshops and tutor sessions can be delivered in your institution or at the University. We also encourage your staff with appropriate qualifications to co-deliver with us to ensure a real fit with your context, policies and practice, offering additional professional development opportunities.
To achieve the full MA Education award requires 180 credits. Groups of modules can also be studied.
Each 20 credit module requires 24 hours of workshop and tutorial time. Institutions often choose to schedule study sessions after their teaching commitment and to suit their year planner. Learners are also encouraged to study in their own time, for example reading journals and articles.
Awards structure
Credit
Modules
Award
20
Any 20 credit module
Certificate of Credit
40
Any two 20 credit modules
Certificate in Continuing Professional
Development in Postgraduate Education
60
Crafting Your Masters Study (20 credits)
Plus two additional 20 credit modules*
Postgraduate Certificate in MA Education or
Postgraduate Certificate in MA Education:
Specialist Pathway
120
Evidence Based Practice (20 credits)
Plus two additional 20 credit modules*
Postgraduate Diploma in MA Education or
Postgraduate Diploma in MA Education:
Specialist Pathway
180
Independent Study (60 credits)
MA Education or MA Education: Specialist Pathway
*See list of optional modules
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
Each module is worth 20 credits, apart from the Independent Study module which is worth 60 credits.
Core modules
You will study modules such as:
Designing Social Research
Independent Study (Dissertation)
Optional modules (MA Education)
If you choose to study our broad-based MA Education, you will also study two optional modules such as:
Comparative Education
Curriculum Challenges
Education for All
Educational Policy and Practice
Emotional Wellbeing
Learning and Ability Theories in Action
Measuring and Evaluating and Learning
Negotiated: Applied Focus of Study
Participation and Agency in Education
Principles and Practices of Coaching and Mentoring
Reel Education
Thinking Theoretically about Education
Optional modules (specialist pathway)
If you choose to study an MA Education with a specialist pathway, you’ll study two specialist modules relating to your pathway. If you aren’t studying a pathway, you can study any pathway modules within your optional module choices.
Early Childhood
Understanding Childhood
Children’s Workforce Development
Inclusion and Special Educational Needs and Disability (SEND)
The Lived Experience of SEND
Inclusion, Disability and Special Education in the 21
st
Century
Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages
The Principles of English Language Teaching
Language Learning: Theory and Practice
Leadership and Management
Leadership and Management Strategies
Developing Leadership Capacity
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Assignments are contextualised to your educational practice and are directly relevant to your learners, for both their professional practice and their personal career development.
Learners will be assessed through a variety of coursework assignments including essays, presentations and portfolios.
Entry requirements
Learners will usually need an undergraduate degree or an equivalent qualification.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
N/A
£670 per 20 credits
International
N/A
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Contact us to discuss the details of your Workplace Contract.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
† Additional information about your studies
Flexible and agreed within the design of the Workplace Contract.
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Education (with optional specialist pathways) MA