Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/joint-honours-courses/economics-and-education-studies-ba-hons/

Economics and Education Studies BA (Hons) - Joint Honours - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Joint Honours
Economics and Education Studies BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Education Studies and Economics
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
L10C
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
3
rd
for teaching - Economics subject area
National Student Survey 2024
Top
5
for student satisfaction - Economics subject area
Complete University Guide 2025
Apply economic theory to real-life scenarios to gain a solid understanding of how economic theory can be applied to a multi-disciplinary social science approach to current educational curricula, policy and trends.
You’ll examine education through the lens of history, sociology, philosophy and psychology, exploring whether ‘traditional’ and ‘progressive’ approaches to education, often seen as opposing philosophies, can complement and enhance each other.
As a student of Eeconomics at Derby, you’lll develop an understanding of key economic concepts and enjoy the opportunity to apply this knowledge to current economic data and live research projects. The programme will build your understanding of contemporary economics both in the UK and overseas, as well as the private and public sector.
Gain real world experience
You’ll have the opportunity to put your skills to the test in the real world before you graduate – you could take a year long Economics placement between your second and third year, a Summer internship, or Education placements to develop your employability skills. Our Education placements are built around the ethos of being a force for positive change, so that students not only gain transferable knowledge and valuable life experience from the opportunities, but also contribute positively to the local community in return.
Research informed teaching
Research is visible in the programme through the creative input of teaching staff, who are experts in their curriculum areas and incorporate latest research in taught sessions and resources. Staff are active researchers and scholars and are well-placed to bring in their own research interests to teaching, as well as sharing their awareness of the wider field of educational and economics research. This provides an interactive and personable way to engage students with research. As a student at Derby, you’ll be encouraged to pursue your own interests in many module seminars and assignments, which will support you in becoming an active researchers in your own right.
Choose your pathway
Studying an Education Studies and Economics Joint Honours degree allows you to choose whether to major in one subject or study them both equally.
You begin this degree by studying both subjects equally in your first year. By the end of your first year, you’ll then decide whether you would like to major or minor in a chosen subject or continue to study them both equally.
BA (Hons) Education Studies and Economics
In this pathway you study Education Studies and Economics equally.
BA (Hons) Economics with Education Studies
In this combination Economics is the major subject and Education is the minor subject. Please note this combination would not be suitable if you were looking to progress to Primary Teacher Training after your degree.
BA (Hons) Education Studies with Economics
In this combination Education Studies is the major subject and Economics is the minor subject.
What is a Joint Honours degree?
A Joint Honours degree offers students the opportunity to study two subjects.
A Joint Honours degree is a great option if:
You want to study two subjects you’re passionate about
You’ve got a specific career in mind and want to create a tailored degree to prepare you for the future
You want to study a new subject alongside one you’re already familiar with
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Real world learning is at the heart of our Economics degrees, with the focus on solving genuine business problems as well as engaging with external experts to discuss economic concepts. You’ll learn through a compelling combination of:
interactive lectures
expert speakers
problem-solving seminars
group work
group discussion
workshops
case study analysis
computer lab work
practical analysis
At the start of the course, you’ll benefit from substantial direction from our teaching team. As your studies progress, you’re expected to work more independently, taking greater responsibility for your own learning – but always with the support and advice of your tutors.
Our Education Studies modules are taught through methods such as directed study, lectures, seminars, and tutorials.
How you are assessed
You’ll be assessed in a number of ways on your Economics modules, including:
computer-based assessments
business reports
applied economics projects to showcase your analytical and quantitative skills
data retrieval and quantitative analytics using Bloomberg
computer-based analysis harnessing Excel and SPSS
poster presentations and reports to assess your research and consultancy skills
Your Education Studies modules will be assessed through course work such as essays, presentations, portfolios, reports and case study analysis.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Michelle Appleby
Programme Leader
Michelle Appleby
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Economics graduates with an understanding of business and leadership are in great demand across the public, private and voluntary sectors worldwide. As well as roles in international business, consultancy and finance, you could pursue opportunities in government departments, development agencies, charities and not-for-profit organisations.
Our focus on problem-solving and practical economic analysis extends your career scope further still, opening doors to a much broader range of opportunities than with a more conventional Economics qualification. Some graduates go on to follow careers in areas such as HR, marketing, PR and sales.
Education graduates are well placed for a range of employment opportunities, including primary and secondary teaching, teaching assistants, education liaison roles, social work, youth and community work or further postgraduate study.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
You will typically study your two subjects equally at stage one, before choosing whether you want to major in one subject at stages two and three.
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Economics BA (Hons)
Education Studies with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Economics and Finance BSc (Hons)
Finance and Technology BSc (Hons)
Primary Education with Qualified Teacher Status BEd (Hons)