Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/education-childhood-inclusion-courses/education-studies-top-up-ba-hons/

Education Studies (Top-Up) BA (Hons) - Education, Childhood and SEND - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Education, Childhood and SEND
Education Studies (Top-Up) BA (Hons)
Book your visit
Book your visit
Undergraduate Course
Education Studies (Top-Up)
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 1-2 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
Start date
September
Location
Buxton & Leek College (Leek Campus)
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
The course is designed for foundation students who wish to top-up to a full BA (Hons) degree on a full time or part time basis. Gain a broad understanding of education from early years to lifelong learning before pursuing a career in teaching or education more widely. You will benefit from a strong focus on social equality, international learning opportunities and the chance to take a specialist pathway.
Education at Derby is ranked in the Top 30 in The Guardian University Guide 2024
Consider different aspects of education in a range of settings, within and outside school
If you complete this course and meet the entry requirements for our PGCE Primary, we will guarantee you an interview - more details below.
Top
15
for Education
Guardian University Guide 2025
100
%
of students agreed that staff are good at explaining things
BA (Hons) Education Studies - National Student Survey 2024
The Education Studies degree opens doors to a wide range of careers, this course explores the role of education in society and examines how moral and social issues shape learning.
Develop in-depth knowledge
You will be provided with a solid understanding of education and educational equality, bringing together perspectives from history, psychology, sociology and philosophy.
You will attending an intellectually stimulating course that will make you an authority on current education policy and practice.
A vibrant community
You will be taught by influential researchers and published authors whose work is shaping the debate about the future of education. Their research in education includes topics such as inclusion, diversity, social equality, online learning and pastoral care in primary, secondary and higher education.
Guaranteed interviews for our PGCE Primary
If you complete this degree and meet the entry requirements for our  we will guarantee you an interview during your final year of undergraduate study (subject to places being available).
Places on our PGCE are highly sought after, so we recommend you apply as early as possible once the Department for Education opens.
Terms and conditions:
There are a limited number of places on the PGCE Primary. Once the course is full, applications will close and no further interviews will be held
Interviews are guaranteed for students who meet the entry requirements for the PGCE Primary, including GCSE grades, degree classification, experience and successful completion of the Skills Tests
An interview does not guarantee an offer to study on the course
What you will study
The programme analyses various elements of the education world today and builds on the knowledge and skills the learners have already acquired from degree level study and any work experience.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Outdoor Learning Space
Learn how to apply education in an outdoor setting, using nature to improve the personal, social and technical skills of children.
Explore our Outdoor Learning Space
Explore our Outdoor Learning Space
Entry requirements
You will need to have a foundation degree passed with grades above 50% and 240 credits.
You need at least five GCSEs (or equivalent) including Maths and English at grade 4/C or above.
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
The initial DBS check (if required for placement purposes)
Induction activities and visits
Any in-class visits (Guest workshops)
All visiting speakers to enhance module content
Discipline Area Conferences such as Education & SEND Conferences and Symposium, Careers Conferences, Early Childhood Studies Conferences
Placement travel costs that exceed stated amount per day (2020-21 stated amount currently £5 per day) for the mandatory days/hours required for the placement module (Level 5) and pathway mandatory requirements (TESOL / SEND) (policy guidance must be followed)
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Print costs above the allowance
Binding of IS dissertation at stage 3, approx. cost £6
Replacement DBS if lost, approx. £50
Optional costs not included in your fees
Field trips abroad that offer enrichment opportunities. These are optional, approx. cost £430-£1000
Memberships to sports clubs and societies encouraged but not mandatory, approx. cost £17 for Athletic Union membership plus club fee, £7 for societies card plus society fee
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Once you have completed this course you will discover wide-ranging career opportunities in fields relating not only to education but also to social care, health care, careers and guidance, and the voluntary sector.
Our graduates are now enjoying success as higher level teaching assistants, welfare child protection officers, early years practitioners, care assistants, and community learning facilitators.
Throughout the course, we place great emphasis on improving your employability. Our end-of-year symposium Voices of the Near Future encourages students to showcase their future aspirations and explore the many career directions available.
Please note that this course does not lead to Qualified Teacher Status. However, if you’d like to train to be a teacher, you will be guaranteed an interview for our  if you meet the entry requirements.
You could also apply to study our  or enhance your career prospects further still by continuing to study with us at masters level.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.