Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/electrical-electronic-engineering-courses/electrical-and-electronic-engineering-beng-hons-foundation/

Electrical and Electronic Engineering with Foundation Year BEng (Hons) - Electrical and Electronic Engineering - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Electrical and Electronic Engineering
Electrical and Electronic Engineering with Foundation Year BEng (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Electrical and Electronic Engineering with Foundation Year
BEng (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 Years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
H601
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
Top
20
for satisfaction with teaching
Electronic and Electrical Engineering subject area, The Guardian University Guide 2025
Top
25
for assessment and feedback
BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering - National Student Survey 2024
Gain a real career advantage on this exciting degree which will put you at the forefront of future technologies. With the BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering on your CV, you can join one of the UK’s most in-demand professions.
Prepare for rewarding careers in areas as diverse as avionics, medical electronics, automotive electrical and electronic systems, electrical power generation, the rail industry or music and entertainment
Not sure about the type of engineering you want to study? Spend the first year covering all aspects of engineering and gain the multi-disciplinary skills and knowledge that employers are looking for
In year two, you have the option to switch your degree to either
BEng (Hons) Motorsport Engineering
or
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering
or continue studying on BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering
Include an optional placement year as part of your studies to gain vital insights into professional practice
Study in an inspirational learning environment at our Markeaton Street site, home to our impressive STEM Centre and fully equipped with laboratories, workshops and the latest technology
Learn from an expert teaching team experienced in the different branches of electrical and electronic engineering and who have produced many influential research publications and textbooks
This course is available part-time for direct entry to the final year only.
Electricity lights our homes, runs many of our domestic gadgets and keeps the wheels of industry turning. We often take it for granted, yet it remains a fascinating and developing field of study – this is all captured in our distinctive BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering.
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Meeting the needs of the industry and you
Engineering is such a broad discipline, and you may not fully know which area of engineering is the right choice to study when beginning your studies.
Employers are increasingly seeking engineers with a broader knowledge of mechanical and electrical engineering to meet their environmental, consumer and business needs. As a University based in an advanced engineering city, it’s vital that we offer degrees with a strong focus on sustainability, electrification and automation.
With this in mind, we have developed our degrees to match the multi-disciplinary requirements that employers are shouting for. All engineering students will take the same core modules in the first year to gain an essential foundation in all aspects of engineering, giving you the chance to settle into your studies, and allowing you time to decide which area suits you best. At the end of your first year, you’ll have the opportunity to switch to either our
BEng (Hons) Motorsport Engineering
or
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering
degree should you realise your passion falls within this area, or you can continue on BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering.
Use specialist facilities
Your studies will feature practical learning and experiments in our specialist laboratories. Areas include:
Electronic Principles Lab:
Featuring a range of test equipment, demonstration boards, and equipment used to conduct investigative experiments on common electronic circuits as well as more advanced systems, you’ll hone your understanding of circuit behaviour in a safe and supportive environment. The computers are also equipped with the latest simulation software from Matlab, Microchip and National Instruments
Electrical Power, Sustainable and Renewable Energies Lab:
The lab has a range of renewable technologies and a variety of DC and AC electrical machines test rigs.
Electronics Project Developments and Innovations Lab:
In this lab you’ll learn practical skills covering basic hand tools and soldering skills, as well as electronic component identification, following circuit schematics and Printed Circuit Board (PCB) layouts, simple design of PCBs, and the complete build and commission of a project
Multipurpose Lab:
This lab doubles as an experimental lab, with several permanently installed tests, and a programming suite for both audio and lighting. Our lighting simulation programme will allow you to view 3D simulations of a lighting design
Multi-Channel Sound Lab:
The Multi-Channel Sound Lab is a Dante audio equipped room containing 32 loudspeakers used for investigative future immersive audio applications
Multipurpose Lab:
Our other multipurpose lab is used for small scale audio testing. Containing a very small anechoic chamber, a vintage hearing test booth and a selection of loudspeakers in different stages of deconstruction
You'll also have access to our Makerspace - a place where you can work on any project and turn your ideas into a prototype. Equipment in the Makerspace includes a laser cutter, 3D printers, soldering irons and CNC machines. All students across the University can use this space and it is a fantastic way of sharing knowledge and skills with one another.
Learn from the experts
The Electrical and Electronic Engineering teaching team have a wide range of research interests and expertise that they bring into their teaching. They include:
Dr Ahmad Kharaz
: Ahmad is the programme leader for the course and is a reader in intelligent instrumentation. He has industrial experience in instrumentation and control and his research areas span low power embedded systems and power quality
Dr Amar Bousbaine
: Amar is a reader in power electronics and an active researcher in several areas including renewable energy sources and autonomous control of drones. He teaches on both of our Electrical and Electronic Engineering courses and is the programme leader for our MSc Control and Instrumentation degree
Dr Uchenna Diala
; Uchenna is a member of several respected institutions including the Institution of Engineering and Technology and the Nigerian Society of Engineers. His research interests include renewable and smart energy systems, energy harvesting and smart systems and structures
Dr Mahmoud Shafik
: Mahmoud is a reader in intelligent mechatronics systems and technology. He is an international expert in this area with more than 20-years of industrially applied research experience
Vital practical experience
We give you the opportunity to take a placement year in industry as part of this degree. This experience, which takes place between the second and final stage of your studies, will greatly enhance your career prospects after graduation. A large number of companies seek placement students each year. In addition, we offer extensive support to boost your employability while you are studying with us: for more information, contact our
Careers and Employment Service team
.
Leaving the University with an accredited degree is a great feeling, knowing that there are now several opportunities at my disposal including professional accreditation, further work experience, career changes and post graduate courses.
Kyran Hill
Electrical and Electronic Engineering graduate
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
The programme is taught through a mix of lectures, tutorials and laboratory work. Very popular with our students, mini-projects are also used as a hands-on way of learning real-world skills.
The timetable contains up to 16 hours of contact with staff a week, with around the same amount of time designated as "directed study".
All modules are supported through University of Derby Online (UDOL), so you have access to essential support materials at any time of the day or night.
How you are assessed
Assessment is through a careful blend of assignment and examination. Assignments may relate to work at the computer or in the laboratory, or may involve a piece of written or analytical work.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Free student membership of relevant professional accreditation body
Some essential educational software packages  such as MATLAB, NI Labview, NI Circuit design Suite and Proteus ECAD will be provided free
Use of resources such as computer rooms, workshops and laboratories
Use of PPE kits in workshops as and when required, such as safety boots, safety googles and ear plugs
One industrial visit during induction week/first year
Talks from expert industry speakers
Small allowance for final year project
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Additional Educational Software approx. £100
Computer Accessories approx. £50
Workshop material approx. £100
Additional Industry visits approx. £50
Additional expenses for final year project approx. £50
Optional costs not included in your fees
Lots of e-books are available for free through the University Library, however you may wish to purchase a hard copy of these at your own expense
Personal computer or tablet computer approx. £500
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
When you graduate, a wide range of employment opportunities will open up for you in electrical and electronic engineering. You could move into areas as diverse as avionics, medical electronics, automotive electrical and electronic systems, electrical power generation, the rail industry or music and entertainment.
Recent students have moved into roles involving electrical or electronic system design, installation and commissioning, programming, maintenance, and related activities. Derby graduates can now be found developing embedded systems in cars, electrical power distribution systems, railway signalling systems, or rolling stock enhancements. They are also managing major industrial processes, from breweries to assembly lines.
The numeracy and problem-solving skills you develop during the BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering will broaden your career scope further still, with alternative options including teaching, banking, accountancy, technical sales or management.
You could also consider taking your studies to postgraduate level by taking, for example, our
MSc Control and Instrumentation
.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Electrical and Electronic Engineering BEng (Hons)