Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/joint-honours-courses/english-and-law-ba-hons/

English and Law BA (Hons) - Joint Honours - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Joint Honours
English and Law BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
English and Law
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 Years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
Q31L
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road and One Friar Gate Square, Derby Campus
The best bits
Combining two subjects boosts your employability and gives you the opportunity to develop knowledge and expertise in two subject areas, making you a more versatile graduate
Develop all the key skills required to succeed in the legal sector - including drafting, advocacy, interviewing and negotiation
Our Law facilities are based One Friar Gate Square in the heart of Derby’s city centre, featuring a replica Crown Courtroom, Custody Suite and Student Legal Advice Centre
We're networked into the legal profession, which opens up exciting opportunities for work internships and professional mentoring
There is the opportunity to broaden your experience with work-based learning projects, study visits to cultural and heritage institutions, as well as lectures and seminars delivered by guest speakers
Engage with literary, critical and cultural theory and develop a highly nuanced and sophisticated approach to the analysis of literature, language and culture
You will explore fascinating aspects of English, including the evolution of fantasy, the representation of crime, the legacy of Empire, cultural politics, existentialist writing, classical myth and the 19th-century realist novel
Top
15
for assessment and feedback - Law subject area
National Student Survey 2024
Top
15
for teaching quality - Law subject area
Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Studying English and Law provides you with analytical, research and creative transferable skills that open up a range of career paths to explore, keeping your career options open for the countless professions where legal knowledge is invaluable.
We aim to broaden your understanding of literature and culture, while equipping you with skills and knowledge of the legal sector. We're networked into the legal profession, which opens up exciting opportunities for work internships and professional mentoring.
You will also have the opportunity to explore a variety of literature from around the world, reading into key themes and creatively applying literary theory to uncover new perspectives and possibilities – from gender and identity, to culture, politics and genre.
Student Legal Advice Centre and Pro Bono work
Students studying Law at Derby may have access to our
Student Legal Advice Centre
- our dedicated space for real-world learning. Volunteering in the Centre provides you the opportunity to develop transferrable skills that will assist you in gaining the skills required once you graduate.
The Centre offers assistance in the following areas:
Family law
Criminal injuries compensation authority claims
Immigration family reunion (in partnership with British Red Cross and Paragon Law)
The Centre also offers support to Litigants in Person in Family Law matters at the Family Court at Derby. In Autumn 2022, a Business Clinic and Legal Triage Clinic (exclusively for University of Derby students) was launched.
The Centre also has a Policy Clinic and Justice Project. The Justice Project promotes the teaching of law to all members of the community, including school children, by informing them of their legal rights and responsibilities.
The Centre was shortlisted for Best Contribution by a Law School at the LawWorks and Attorney General Student Pro Bono Awards 2022, and was highly commended at the LawWorks Pro Bono Awards 2021 for Best contribution in relation to the Centre’s Immigration Family Reunion Clinic.
A broad perspective with English
English at Derby is an exciting, diverse and challenging course that not only incorporates the close analysis of literature, but also considers the situations in which literature is produced and read. This means your studies will include the intellectual and cultural history of art, film and philosophy, as well as contemporary cultural politics. You will be introduced to a range of cultural expression from across the globe and from diverse historical periods.
The range of options will gradually allow you to acquire a degree of specialisation in a particular area. They include key aspects of literary history such as Renaissance drama, the 'rise of the novel' in the eighteenth century, Romantic poetry, nineteenth-century realism, modernism, and postmodernism, as well as modules investigating postcolonial writing and the literature of crime.
Literature asks questions about who we are, why we are here, and the nature of the world in which we find ourselves, and studying English reflects the vibrancy, dynamism and profundity of the subject at large.
Tailor your degree
To make sure you get the most out of your degree, your Law modules are prescribed. However, you’ll be able to tailor your studies in English by choosing various modules covering different themes and theories in literature such as crime, fantasy, gender and cultural politics – all to suit your career goals and interests.
Expert teaching
Our Law teaching team includes barristers, solicitors, criminal psychologists, sociologists and experienced police officers. Several are still actively engaged with practice, which helps you keep up to date with contemporary issues in justice. Our teaching is also enriched by research covering some of the most pressing issues confronting society today, from slavery to digital privacy.
This course is supported by visiting professors and guest lecturers who are leading authorities in their fields. Our celebrated Public Lecture Series also brings influential figures to the University to shed new light on the legal system.
For English modules, you will be taught by an enthusiastic team with research expertise covering a broad range of areas. We place emphasis on discussion and active engagement with the material. We aim to challenge you to achieve your best, and offer substantial tutorial support in addition to scheduled classes.
Facilities
Law students are based on the Derby Campus at One Friar Gate Square. It includes a mock court room, replica custody suite and social learning hubs where you can develop your skills and familiarise yourself with the type of environments you’ll encounter in real-life legal situations.
Choose your pathway
Studying an English and Law Joint Honours degree allows you to choose whether you major in one subject or study them both equally.
You begin this degree by studying both subjects equally in your first year. By the end of your first year, you will then decide whether you would like to major or minor in a chosen subject or continue to study them both equally.
Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in English and Law
In this pathway,
you study English and Law
equally.
Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in English with Law
In this pathway, English is the major subject and Law is the minor subject.
Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Law with English
In this pathway,
Law
is the major subject
and English is
the minor subject.
I chose Derby because of the emphasis placed on practicality which set it apart from others. Another factor was the welcoming atmosphere that was apparent when you entered the building. It was the first university that just felt right.
Gemma Wood
LLB (Hons) Graduate
The course was perfect for me as it allowed me to engage in high level intellectual study that sets me apart from other applicants. It developed my research, reading, presentation and teaching skills.
Charlie Pidcock
English student
What is a Joint Honours degree?
A Joint Honours degree offers students the opportunity to study two subjects.
A Joint Honours degree is a great option if:
You want to study two subjects you’re passionate about
You’ve got a specific career in mind and want to create a tailored degree to prepare you for the future
You want to study a new subject alongside one you’re already familiar with
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
The Law Pathways within the Joint Honours Scheme do not lead to a Qualifying Law
Degree
. H
owever, if you select
a particular combination of modules (as
advised
by the
Subject Leader)
this may
offer some exemptions from the Postgraduate Diploma in
Law/Common Professional Examination. Any such exemption must be negotiated by the individual student with PGDL /CPE providers and with the professional bodies.
The modules below indicate the range of modules you may study as part of this combination, however prescribed and optional modules will vary depending on whether you choose to study both subjects equally, or choose to major or minor in a subject. To find out exactly which modules you would study as part of your chosen combination please contact
jhs@derby.ac.uk
.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You'll be taught through a variety of methods, such as:
lectures
seminars
workshops and tutorials
student presentations
debates
one-to-one sessions with a tutor
work projects
self-directed study
video discussions with overseas partner institutions
case preparation
mooting - where you present a legal issue against opposing counsel in a mock court case
interviewing
negotiation
Engaging in real or simulated legal practice, you will build a range of the key skills required to succeed in the legal sector at every stage of the course.
You will also develop skills in legal scholarship, with the chance to undertake problem-based research and original academic enquiry. If our teaching team consider the work you produce to be of sufficient quality, it could be published in the Derby Law School Journal.
Through our peer assisted mentoring scheme, students from later years of the course also give helpful guidance and support to first year students.
English is a subject based upon discussion and interpretation, and your English classes will reflect this, with great emphasis placed upon student contributions and presentations in addition to lectures.
Showcasing your skills
Mooting forms part of certain modules and you can develop your expertise further through regional and national competitions. We have an excellent record of success in these challenges.
We also help run a schools’ debating competition in partnership with Derby & District Law Society and Enterprise for Education where you can mentor local secondary school pupils.
How you are assessed
Our assessment strategy is designed to produce confident, articulate graduates with a broad set of skills.
For Law modules, assessments include:
group work
oral presentations
written coursework
examinations
seminar debates
group presentations
conference papers
For English modules, there are no exams and forms of assessment include seminar debates, group presentations and conference papers alongside essays and longer research projects. We place great emphasis on developing your research skills, with independent projects playing a key part in the second and third year of the course.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Joel Klaff
Programme Leader
Joel Klaff
Joel is currently Assistant Head of Law and Programme Leader for the Undergraduate LL.B Law Programmes. His areas of interest include Commercial Law, International Trade and International Economic Law. He has a further interest in ensu...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC (At least a grade C in English or related subject (or equivalent qualification)
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Access to HE: Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6. Must include passes in compulsory Level 3 subjects
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Home and International trips if applicable (e.g. The Hague, Dublin and London)
Your fee includes any mandatory study visits and some social events
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Purchase of set texts and copies of core text books; costs will vary depending on the source
Purchasing formal business attire for mooting assessments (costs can vary between £75 - £300 depending on source of purchase)
Printing of trial bundles for mooting assessment - around 80 pages (approx. cost £4)
Optional costs not included in your fees
Membership of the Students Union Law Society
Students will be invited to black tie events which will require the wearing of formal attire (£50-100 depending on source of purchase)
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Studying English and Law provides you with transferable creative, communication and analytical skills. You will develop key skills - such as writing, editing and presenting – that are essential for many roles, making you attractive in the job market and giving you excellent career opportunities.
You may consider a career in:
Writing, editing or publishing
Journalism
Marketing, advertising or events
Art and Literature-based organisations such as media centres, museums or galleries
Teaching
This degree also allows graduates to engage in careers in business, banking and human resources – any profession that welcomes an exposure to studying law.
You can go on to study at postgraduate level and achieve an LLM or complete a qualifying Solicitor exam.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
You will typically study your two subjects equally at stage one, before choosing whether you want to major in one subject at stages two and three.
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
English BA (Hons)
Creative Writing and Publishing BA (Hons)
English and History BA (Hons)
English and Creative and Professional Writing BA (Hons)
Business Management and English BA (Hons)