Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/enhanced-clinical-practice-apprenticeship/

Enhanced Clinical Practice (ECP) Apprenticeship - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Enhanced Clinical Practice (ECP) Apprenticeship
Apply now
Apply now
Apprenticeship Course
Enhanced Clinical Practitioner Apprenticeship
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Course level
Level 6 and 7
Duration
18 months on programme followed by 3 months end point assessment (21 months)
Location
Online
Lecture/workshop days - dates/times
Each cohort will be allocated a suggested day of study which will change with each cohort. This will enable live sessions to be attended and collaboration with peers.
Course description
This programme is developed in line with the clinical role of the Enhanced Clinical Practitioner and is an apprenticeship programme linked to the
Apprenticeship Standard ST0895 for Enhanced Clinical Practitioners.
Enhanced Clinical Practitioners are qualified health and social care professionals who are working at an enhanced or specialist level of practice with specific knowledge and skills to plan and deliver complex clinical care in a field of expertise. These Enhanced Clinical Practitioners will critically evaluate and analyse clinical problems using their expertise and clinical knowledge. In doing so they will be seeking out and applying relevant evidence, enhanced clinical assessments, diagnostics, interventions, and equipment to make clinical decisions. These practitioners will be caring for patients with complex clinical health needs and will take an active role in assessment diagnosis, interventions and the use of clinical equipment that may be required. They will have effective communication skills and will be taking an active role within the multidisciplinary team to ensure strong interdisciplinary working whilst putting the patient at the centre of their care.
Apprentices will learn through a mixture of taught University education within the online learning environment and work-based learning. Apprentices will be in employment and within a role where they are working with people with complex health conditions. They will have practice supervisors who will be able to support their learning within the practice environment as well as academic staff who will be able to offer them academic support within their programme.
All academic study materials, reading, guidance, and handbooks are via an online format. The learning and teaching methods predominantly used are as follows:
Self-paced, online study and research.
Discussion boards, enabling apprentices to work on unit activities, to discuss a particular topic with fellow apprentices and tutors, to communicate with each other on aspects of the study materials, and share experiences related to the module topic.
Live sessions by a module tutor; delivered and recorded for each module.
Pre-recorded videos delivered by members of the academic team, available to watch at any time.
Structure, certificates and assessment
This programme has been designed to enable apprentices to undertake the level 6 apprenticeship standard in addition to either a level 6 or level 7 academic programme, dependent upon previous qualifications. The academic level will be determined in discussion with the candidate, employer and academic representatives.
On successful completion of the academic programme and end point assessment, you will attain the following qualifications:
Level 6 Enhanced Clinical Practitioner Apprenticeship and either the following level 6 or level 7 academic qualification:
Level 6: University Advanced Diploma in Enhanced Clinical Practice Programme Structure Diagram
(18 months in duration followed by an end point assessment)
Terms 1-4:
Enhanced Clinical Practice (40 credits L6 runs over the programme)
Term 2:
Option slot 1* (20 credits L6)
Term 3:
Option slot 2* (20 credits L6)
Term 5:
End point assessment
Level 7: Postgraduate Certificate in Enhanced Clinical Practice Programme Structure Diagram
(18 months in duration followed by an end point assessment)
Terms 1-4:
Enhanced Clinical Practice (40 credits L7 runs over the programme)
Term 2:
Option slot 1* (20 credits L6 or L7)
Term 3:
Option slot 2* (20 credits L6 or L7)
Term 5:
End point assessment
* NB: for both programmes you only undertake ONE option module at 20 credits either in Term 2 or Term 3. The programme is therefore Enhanced Clinical Practitioner (40 credits) and one option module (20 credits) to give a total of 60 credits for the programme.
Current option modules include:
Specific health diagnosis
Diabetes: a contemporary approach (20 credits at level 6)
This module is designed to discuss the presentation of diabetes and explore the current treatment regimens of diabetes. It will explore the significant advances that have been made in the education, prevention, and management of both types of diabetes on a national and international level.
The module will also explore how the introduction of digital health technologies such as continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) and telemedicine impacts on diabetes care and consider future developments of the condition.
Perspectives in mental health (20 credits at level 6)
This module aims to provide an in-depth exploration of mental health problems and the care and provision of services for individuals experiencing mental health issues. Within this module, students will critically explore mental health conditions and their aetiology. They will analyse the current diagnostic approaches and treatment strategies considering the role of social prescribing within the provision of care for people with mental health problems.
Respiratory diseases (20 credits at level 6)
Respiratory diseases are a group of conditions that impact the respiratory system. Some conditions vary in severity but impact children and adults of all ages. This module will consider a variety of respiratory diseases and discuss the pathophysiology of these diseases. Using the most up to date evidence base and best practice guidelines, this module will consider the diagnostic processes that can be employed to identify respiratory diseases and consider the current management strategies. The module will support students to consider their role in caring for a patient with a respiratory disease including their communication with the patient and their families and the ethical and legal issues that can occur.
Supporting people living with dementia and other neurocognitive disorders (20 credits at level 6)
Neurocognitive disorders are a group of conditions that affect cognitive abilities, including memory, attention, perception, language, and problem-solving skills.
This module will provide an in-depth understanding of the different types of neurocognitive disorders, their causes, symptoms, and treatments. We will cover a range of topics, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and other conditions that impact cognitive function.
Across the life course
Public and community health (20 credits at level 7 only)
This module explores the principles, strategies, and interventions used to promote health and prevent disease at a population level. It also provides an overview of how socioeconomic, cultural, and environmental factors influence health outcomes.
This module will enable learners to critically reflect on the potential role of their profession in the public health arena. This module will enable learners to critically review the concept and construct of communities. Learners will critically review public health agendas and consider their relevance to populations/ communities in addressing social determinants of health and wellbeing.
Maternal and family health (20 credits at level 6)
This module will enhance skills in evidence-based approaches to providing respectful and compassionate care to women, newborn infants, and their families. Students in this module will become knowledgeable across the continuum from pre-pregnancy, pregnancy, childbirth, postpartum and the early weeks of the newborn infant, including the contemporary issues surrounding infant feeding.
Children and young people: perspectives in health (20 credits at level 6)
This module enhances theoretical understanding of child development (physical, emotional and social growth) across the life course with consideration of some of the key global challenges young people are faced with today. Topics such as the impact of childhood obesity, social media, genetics and socioeconomic factors on health and wellbeing are explored. Students will advance their understanding of how neurodiversity, illness and disability, trauma and sexual development can impact a child and young person’s ability to engage in society.
Ageing well (20 credits at level 7 only)
This module aims to provide students with comprehensive knowledge and understanding of the multifaceted aspects of ageing. It focuses on the physiological, psychological, and social processes of ageing, as well as strategies and interventions that promote health, wellbeing, and independence in later life. This module also explores the role of public policy, healthcare systems, and community resources in facilitating positive ageing experiences.
Advanced concepts of palliative care (20 credits at level 6)
Within all health care environments, practitioners are at the forefront of caring for the dying patient. Practitioners are required to work closely with family members to support them through the process of the illness and subsequent bereavement.
Managing symptoms, supporting clients and carers and utilising one’s own and others’ expertise to the benefit of the client are all important aspects of the role of the palliative care practitioner. Contemporary frameworks demonstrate the need to provide the right level of care at the right time and in the right place, which is of paramount importance to all concerned.
Acute ill health
Minor injuries (20 credits at level 6)
The aim of this module is to provide an in-depth understanding of the assessment, diagnosis and management of people presenting with minor injuries. This will provide healthcare professionals with a solid theoretical foundation to inform future practice. Whilst the module does include examination techniques it is not possible to assess the application of this knowledge within the students own clinical setting. As with all aspects of clinical practice, this would need to be agreed with the student’s employer, in line with regulatory body guidance and other national and local guidelines.
Infection prevention and control (20 credits at level 6)
The module will provide students with comprehensive knowledge and underpinning principles and practices of preventing and controlling infections in healthcare and other settings. The module aims to develop students to be able to apply principles of epidemiology of infections, the mechanisms of transmission, and the strategies used for their prevention and control.
Managing the acutely ill patient (20 credits at level 6)
This module will provide students with an enhanced level of knowledge and understanding in the management of an acutely ill patient. It is aimed at all health and social care professionals, who work with acutely ill patients. There is a recognition that all patients have the potential to become acutely unwell at any time. This module aims to develop learners with a holistic approach to acute illness surveillance, monitoring, treatment and subsequent recovery.
Critical care (20 credits at level 6)
Critical Care is an intensive, multidisciplinary module that prepares practitioners for the demanding critical care environment. Adhering to national standards, it aims to develop competent, compassionate professionals focused on high-quality patient care. The module covers pathophysiology, assessment, and management of various critical conditions, alongside advanced interventions and technologies.
Surgical first assistant (20 credits at level 6)
This module will provide healthcare professionals working within the perioperative environment, with the necessary skills and underpinning knowledge to develop and practice enhanced surgical skills within the role of a Surgical First Assistant.
Competence of the required clinical skills to perform the Surgical First Assistant role will be achieved through work-based learning with supervision by an appropriately qualified healthcare professional or clinician. A clinical practice portfolio will be required to document learning experiences and competence. Demonstration of competence will be in line with current professional guidance and recommendations.
Summative assessments of students' work will take place for each module. Students will be expected to evidence their theoretical learning and synthesis of this learning into their practice via assessments including, report writing, presentations, reflections and practice assessment. These assessments will evidence all the required knowledge, skills and behaviours and are aligned with the module learning outcomes, programme learning outcomes and apprenticeships requirements.
Request more information about our apprenticeship programmes
Want to talk to a member of the team about our apprenticeship programmes? Make an enquiry and a member of our team will get in contact with to provide you with more information about our apprenticeships, and how our programmes can up-skill your workforce.
Request more information about apprenticeships
Request more information about apprenticeships
Entry requirements
Employment requirements
You will need to be working in a suitable role for at least 30 hours per week and have support from your employer. Your employer will need to provide clinical governance, help supervise and develop your clinical skills and be prepared to work closely with the University.
You also need to be registered with a professional body such as the Health and Care Professions Council, the Nursing and Midwifery Council or Social Work England or with one of the following accredited voluntary registers: The Academy for Healthcare Science, Register of Clinical Technologists or Registration Council for Clinical Physiologists in accordance with the requirements of the apprenticeship standard.
Academic requirements
Level 6 (UAD) Entry Requirements
Be employed on a contract of 30 hours or move and have access to apprenticeship funding
Hold registration with either one of the statutory healthcare regulators as outlined within the apprenticeship standard
Hold a level 2 qualification in English and Maths. This qualification must be recognised by the Institute for Apprenticeship and Technical Education (IfATE)
A minimum of a DipHE, FDSc or equivalent qualification
Level 7 (PGCert) Entry Requirements
Be employed on a contract of 30 hours or move and have access to apprenticeship funding
Hold registration with either one of the statutory healthcare regulators as outlined within the apprenticeship standard
Hold a level 2 qualification in English and Maths. This qualification must be recognised by the Institute for Apprenticeship and Technical Education (IfATE)
A minimum of a Bachelor's degree in a health-related subject (or equivalent qualification)
Fees and funding
Information for employers
The cost of this apprenticeship will normally be in line with the funding band £7,000, but we will consider individual agreements, depending on student numbers and your involvement.
If you pay into the Apprenticeship Levy, this funding will be used. If you are an SME, generous government subsidies are available.
Information for apprentices
The fees will be paid by your employer.
Who will teach you
You will be taught by a range of registered professionals including nursing and allied health academic staff. You will also be supported by supervisors in your place of work in line with the tripartite nature of apprenticeships.
How to apply
You will need to apply for this apprenticeship through your employer.
However, you can find out more from us - please see below for contact information.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Apprenticeship Hub
Email:
apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk
Phone:
01332 593092
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Other courses you might like
Psychology and Social Care