Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/joint-honours-courses/creative-professional-writing-and-entrepreneurship-ba-hons/

Creative and Professional Writing and Entrepreneurship BA (Hons) - Joint Honours - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Joint Honours
Creative and Professional Writing and Entrepreneurship BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Entrepreneurship and Creative and Professional Writing
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
W8N1
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Develop your writing and editing skills and explore the context in which writing is produced, while studying key business themes that allow you to generate innovative business solutions to succeed in the writing industry and beyond.
Explore a range of subject matters across Creative Writing including poetry, literary prose fiction, journalistic and non-fiction writing, editing and sub-editing, as well as collaborating on large and small-scale writing projects.
Alongside this you’ll explore wider themes of business, enterprise and entrepreneurship which will enable you to develop skills to start your own business or provide innovation to existing businesses.
Put your skills into practice
We also encourage you to gain as much experience of the industry as you can. We also provide opportunities for you to enhance your learning through work placements, volunteering and engagement with the community through specific modules and continuous extracurricular activities which are promoted in this programme.
Building on centuries old tradition of literary and cultural innovation in the city, Derby has a thriving student and graduate live writing scene, and you will be encouraged to develop your creative impulses by taking full part in the opportunities on offer.
Building innovation
Our Creative and Professional writing modules are designed to create space for you to choose your professional and vocational goals, and to execute the planned development of your own writing and working practices towards achieving these goals. Our vision at Derby is to fully enable this discovery of creative potential to maximise your writing abilities.
Our Entrepreneurship modules aim to equip you with a broad enterprise and entrepreneurship education which will better enable you to start your own business, act in a freelance capacity or be enterprising within an SME or large company environment. We seek to offer an enterprise and entrepreneurship curriculum that is leading-edge, vocationally relevant and reflects the complex and challenging nature of the contemporary business environment.
Choose your pathway
Studying an Entrepreneurship and Creative and Professional Writing Joint Honours degree allows you to choose whether you major in one subject or study them both equally.
You begin this degree by studying both subjects equally in your first year. By the end of your first year, you will then decide whether you would like to major in Creative and Professional Writing or continue to study them both equally.
BA (Hons) Entrepreneurship and Creative and Professional Writing
In this pathway you study Entrepreneurship and Creative and Professional Writing equally.
BA (Hons) Creative and Professional Writing with Entrepreneurship
In this combination Creative and Professional Writing is the major subject and Entrepreneurship is the minor subject.
What is a Joint Honours degree?
A Joint Honours degree offers students the opportunity to study two subjects.
A Joint Honours degree is a great option if:
You want to study two subjects you’re passionate about
You’ve got a specific career in mind and want to create a tailored degree to prepare you for the future
You want to study a new subject alongside one you’re already familiar with
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
On your Creative Writing and Publishing modules you’ll learn through a mixture of:
lectures, seminars and tutorials
creative writing workshops
project work
technology-enhanced learning
peer reviews and presentations
We also arrange visits to literary festivals, local and national museums, cultural heritage sites and other areas of interest for 'location writing' exercises.
On your Entrepreneurship modules you will learn through methods such as:
formal lectures which will at times include expert speakers
Seminars which can be tutor-led or student-led and can include discussions, critical analysis of reading, presentations, group work, debates and general problem solving, interaction with real businesses, case study analysis, computer lab work, practical analysis and formative assessment
tutorials which are one-to-one sessions with a tutor to discuss the development of assignments
work experience projects
self-directed study
How you are assessed
Assessment methods for our Creative and Professional Writing modules are wide ranging and could take the form of:
a novel extract, novella, or portfolio of stories or flash fiction
a memoir or portfolio of life writing
a portfolio of poetry on page, performance or digital media
a film script or portfolio of short film scripts
a portfolio of journalism or an individual journalistic assignment
a blog, podcast, SMS drama or YouTube video, with or without related printed publications
an industry focused project such as a publishing, production, advertising or marketing exercise with evidence of audience engagement or client satisfaction
a critical commentary, critical reflection or preface to the creative work discussing creative context, influences, and process
a multimedia project, produced alone or in collaboration with others
a research report or research portfolio including items such as location notes or interviews
a step outline or planning document
a professional submission package as defined by a literary agent, producer, publisher or scout
a pitch for creative work or exercise in professional preparation such as a mock interview or funding application
a journal reflecting on sources, influences, revision and editing choices
individual and group presentations, either formal or informal
For your Entrepreneurship modules you’ll benefit from an innovative variety of assessment modes. Assessment is mainly via coursework which can take forms such as traditional essays and reports, group project work, research and consultancy projects, presentations, posters and design of digital materials. There are also in-class tests and computer-based assessments.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Cat Mitchell
Programme Leader
Cat Mitchell
Cat Mitchell is a Lecturer in Writing and Publishing with five years of experience working in the publishing industry. She teaches on the Publishing MA course, and the Writing and Publishing BA course.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6. Must include passes in compulsory Level 3 subjects
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
You’ll graduate with strong, relevant skills for the workplace and a wide range of possible post-graduation opportunities, from employment to freelancing, business set-up, postgraduate research, or work as an independent writer who is fully understanding of the literary, creative and business environment in which they must operate.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
You will typically study your two subjects equally at stage one, before choosing whether you want to major in one subject at stages two and three.
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Publishing and Entrepreneurship BA (Hons)
Creative Writing and Publishing BA (Hons)
Business Management and Entrepreneurship BA (Hons)
English BA (Hons)
Business Management BA (Hons)