Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/joint-honours-courses/theatre-arts-and-entrepreneurship-ba-hons/

Theatre Arts and Entrepreneurship BA (Hons) - Joint Honours - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Joint Honours
Theatre Arts and Entrepreneurship BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Entrepreneurship and Theatre
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
W44T
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Focus on developing your creativity and theatre makings skills whilst building a solid basis in entrepreneurship, allowing you to launch your own business or bring innovation to an existing one.
You’ll combine theatre practice with theoretical research and analysis, exploring key themes such as workshop preparations, rehearsal strategies, directing and stagecraft.
Entrepreneurship is an essentially practical subject and the course places great emphasis on real world learning. We’ll use our academic expertise to make the links between theoretical business and enterprise, entrepreneurship frameworks and the practicalities of the real business world.
Learn in Derby Theatre
The majority of your Theatre modules will be based in Derby Theatre where you can enjoy the benefit of working and studying in a professional theatre environment. You’ll share the Derby Theatre building with professional artists which offers exciting opportunities for work-based learning placements. You can also catch them performing in both the studio and on the main stage. We have a successful history of working with outside organisations and artists, both from the Derby area and further afield, including many international collaborations.
Derby Theatre
Our students have a rare and exceptional learning experience at Derby Theatre. We are one of the only universities in the country to own and run a professional producing and receiving theatre.
Take a look at the theatre
Take a look at the theatre
Put theory into practice
You’ll have the opportunity to gain valuable work experience before you graduate to boost your employability. Our Theatre courses offer great opportunities to network with industry professionals, and you could undertake a placement within the Theatre in the Artistic, Programming, Business Management, Marketing, Education, Technical, Producing, Front of House, Finance, or Creative Learning departments. Alternatively choose to take an Entrepreneurship- based placement year between your second and third year to put your skills into practice in a real business environment.
Choose your pathway
In order to provide you with the best experience, this course is available through a joint pathway only. You cannot choose to major or minor in a subject, but you can choose to study certain modules in your second and third year.
What is a Joint Honours degree?
A Joint Honours degree offers students the opportunity to study two subjects.
A Joint Honours degree is a great option if:
You want to study two subjects you’re passionate about
You’ve got a specific career in mind and want to create a tailored degree to prepare you for the future
You want to study a new subject alongside one you’re already familiar with
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
The Theatre Arts programme involves a combination of practice-led, studio-based exercises and lecture or seminar activity. You’ll learn about the wide variety of professional roles within theatre and have the opportunity to explore these through work placements at Derby Theatre. You can explore your skills as a theatre maker or develop skills in Applied Theatre and working in educational settings. The work will be underpinned by research, academic criticism and the professional production programme of Derby Theatre. You’ll carry out coursework that will be subject to academic criticism both written and practical.
Our Entrepreneurship programme incorporates a number of learning and teaching methods, such as:
formal lectures which will at times include expert speakers
Seminars which can be tutor-led or student-led and can include discussions, critical analysis of reading, presentations, group work, debates and general problem solving, interaction with real businesses, case study analysis, computer lab work, practical analysis and formative assessment
tutorials which are one-to-one sessions with a tutor to discuss the development of assignments
work experience projects
self-directed study
How you are assessed
For Theatre Arts, assessment is through a range of methods including written coursework, presentations, creative portfolios, assessed rehearsals, practical workshops and public performance.
Our Entrepreneurship assessment methods could include:
business reports
research and consultancy projects
presentations
design of digital materials such as videos, blogs or augmented reality posters
computer-based assessments
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Rob Moon
Programme Leader
Rob Moon
Rob Moon is a Senior Lecturer in Enterprise and Entrepreneurship. Rob was a design engineer with over 20 years’ experience within the global manufacturing industry, and has lectured extensively in Southern Africa, Europe and Bangl...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Included in your fees for Theatre Arts:
tickets at a heavily discounted price, or free tickets (show dependent) to see productions at Derby Theatre
field trip to see productions at other regional or National theatres
production costs for your devised performances and outreach work (e.g., costume, props, set etc)
masterclasses and workshops with visiting professionals
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Students from a Theatre Arts discipline regularly go on to successful careers in the theatre industries for example as actors, directors, theatre crew, artistic directors of their own theatre companies and other arts professionals. Alternatively, many students go on to postgraduate study and employment in a wide variety of professions such as teaching, marketing and public relations.
Your entrepreneurship modules are designed to prepare you for an employed or self-employed career, this could be in fields such as:
Business
Human resource management
Finance
Marketing
PR
Sales
Project management
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
You will typically study your two subjects equally at stage one, before choosing whether you want to major in one subject at stages two and three.
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Other courses you might like
Business Management and Entrepreneurship BA (Hons)
Psychology and Theatre Arts BA (Hons)
Theatre Arts BA (Hons)