Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/environment-sciences-courses/environmental-health-msc-masters-online/

Environmental Health MSc - Environmental Sciences - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Environmental Sciences
Environmental Health MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Environmental Health
MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,000
(2024/25)
‡
International fee
£9,000
(2024/25)
‡
Start dates
September, January, May
Location
Online
By taking this course you’ll be looking to contribute to improving the public health and wellbeing now and, in the future, to ensure all the physical environments where people live, eat, play and work are safe.
As one of our most established online courses this online Environmental Health MSc course addresses the need for environmental health professionals who can understand and evaluate the risks posed by the stressors - or hazards - of environmental health. It encompasses the wider areas of public health, food safety, occupational safety in the workplace and residential environment, and environmental protection.
Environmental health is a multi-faceted discipline which deals with issues that impact on the health and wellbeing of individuals and society. The course will equip you with the knowledge, expertise and skills needed to take on and enhance your role as a professional in this field of study. It will provide you with a broad understanding on the inter-relationship between environmental health hazards, risk assessment and the potential impact on public health and wellbeing.
You will gain additional key skills demanded by both public and private sectors and international organisations. As well as gaining core knowledge associated with environmental health, you will also be exposed to real-life situations using case studies based on real life scenarios.
A CIEH accredited course
The programme has been designed to align with the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health and is the only online MSc
course accredited by the CIEH
which means it is a crucial first step in becoming a qualified Environmental Health professional.
As a qualifying course for membership of the CIEH and you are actively encouraged to become a member of this professional body when you commence your studies as this will allow you to access to membership resources, network with industry contacts and explore career options.
Learn online with experienced practitioners
The programme is led by Bruce Birkett who is Chartered Environmental Health Officer with over thirty years' experience working in environmental health. You’ll also benefit from teaching and guidance by our professional team of experienced environmental health practitioners.
We have over 17 years of experience in delivering this course successfully to Environmental Health Officers and Environmental Health Practitioners. Our online MSc Environmental Health is closely aligned with industry needs to ensure your skills and knowledge are up to date to help you get ahead in your career.
All course content is relevant and topical, looking at current trends within the environmental health industry.
100%
there is appropriate access to online library resources
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2023
100%
staff are enthusiastic about what they are teaching
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2023
100%
the workload on my course has been manageable
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2023
A talk from our academic
The programme leader for Environmental Health, Bruce Birkett, talks about our online Environmental Health MSc course.
View Our online Environmental Health MSc course video transcript
What you will study
You will study six core 20 credit modules and complete an independent study project worth 60 credits.
You can
view the study plan for this online course
.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
Teaching and learning
Modules within this course will be delivered by a professional team of experienced practitioners. Delivered entirely online through our user-friendly student portal dashboard and intuitive digital learning environment, you will interact with your tutors and fellow students and through a mix of virtual live classrooms and tutorials.
Group discussions and debate are held through forums and community spaces and the use of collaborative tools such as wikis for group projects and assignments. Digital texts, ebooks, journals, databases and more are available electronically via our library.
The programme team will bring their industry experience to life using real case studies for you to assess to gain practical hands-on experience ensuring you leave the programme with experiential learning.
You will be able to identify environmental health stressors and critically evaluate the likely effect on public health and wellbeing. Progression through the programme will aid you to develop critical thinking and analysis skills, culminating in the ability to think strategically across the breadth of the environmental health sector.
The independent study module will provide you with the opportunity to use and enhance the knowledge and intellectual skills gained during the course by means of an extensive investigation into a topic of your choice. This can include carrying out a project in collaboration with your employer and industry area.
Study skills
Many of our students are mature learners and have not studied academically for many years. To help you to become an effective student, able to study at postgraduate level, there are a number of advanced study skill resources available to you covering areas such as research skills, critical evaluation in academic context, literature search, referencing, plagiarism and so on.
Pace of study
We recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete one 20-credit module over a 10-week trimester.
The programme usually takes between three to five years to complete. However, it may be completed sooner if you choose to start the Independent Scholarly Activity module whilst also studying your final taught module.
Assessment method
This course is assessed through 100% coursework with a range of methods, such as essays, research reports, presentations, group work and practical reports.
To prepare you to work in environmental health the assessments include case studies to enable you to build the skills and knowledge that you will need to draw upon in professional practice.
Formative assessment opportunities will be available throughout your modules to provide structured learning and feedback. This may be gained through feedback such as self-assessment, peer review, or feedback directly from your tutor.
More formal summative assessments which count towards your grades, such as computer-aided tests, research projects, business reports, case study analysis, collaborative group work and reflective reports will develop your skills and knowledge at Masters level. They will tend to be directly related to your personal development or your application of learning to either your own or a case study organisation.
The final assessment on the MSc is the independent study, a triple module worth 60 credits. This is a major research project applied to a workplace, or you may choose to produce an academic paper for publication. You will be supported by an academic supervisor who will guide you through this process towards your final submission.
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Don't just take our word for it...
Graduate Adeyemi Roland talks about his time as a student with University of Derby Online Learning.
View Adeyemi Roland and the online Environmental Health MSc video transcript
Who will teach you
Bruce Birkett
Programme Leader
Bruce Birkett
Bruce Birkett has 30 years of experience working in the Environmental Health field. Before working in higher education, he was employed by various local authorities through England, lastly as a Head of Service. Bruce has&nbsp...
View full staff profile
→
Get a taste of the course content
Our Environmental Health MSc course taster will give you an idea of how online learning works. It includes a selection of content from a course module so you can see what some of our learning material looks like.
You will need to complete a short form to access the course taster.
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Entry requirements
You should normally have a UK undergraduate degree (at least a 2:2) with honours in a pure applied science (or combination) of a UK university, the CNAA or an overseas equivalent.
Or
Qualifications and experience considered to be equivalent to the above. All students applying via this route will be assessed and where necessary interviewed by the Programme Leader via phone or video call.
Exceptionally, we may admit you without these qualifications where you can demonstrate the potential to achieve the aims and outcomes of the curriculum. You will also need to demonstrate that your experiences are equivalent to having achieved a 2.2 honours degree. All students applying via this route will be assessed and evaluated by the Programme Leader.
When assessing a non-standard applicant's suitability for entry onto the programme the Programme Leader will have regard to:
Level of current qualifications
Experience of working in an environmental health related setting, the roles undertaken and the level of decision making undertaken
Motivation for undertaking the programme
To ascertain this we may ask for an interview with you, a reference from your employer that details your experiences and current role, and you may be asked to undertake a critical written report for consideration.
English language qualification
If English is not your first language, or you have not successfully completed your highest level of qualification in English, you will need an English language qualification. For this course you will need at least one of the following:
IELTS (International English Language Testing System) 6.5
TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) 580 (paper based) 237 (computer based) or 92 (internet based)
Pearson Test of Academic English: 51
Cambridge Advanced Certificate: pass
London Tests of English: we accept level 5 for postgraduate courses
International GCE O-level English Language: grade C
International GCSE English/English as a Second Language: grade C
Find out more about our English language requirements
Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL)
Have you already studied at another institution, completed a training course, or does your work experience appear equivalent to one or more modules of your chosen course? If so, you may be able to translate this prior learning into credits towards your course modules, so you don’t have to study them again.
Further information about applying for credits for prior learning can be found in
our recognition of prior learning section
.
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£1,000
7 (six 20 credit modules and one 60 credit module)
£9,000
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£1,080
7 (six 20 credit modules and one 60 credit module)
£9,720
About your fees
This figure would be the total cost of this course based on the fee in the current academic year. However, please note that fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase if your course lasts longer than one year.
If you are required to undertake any associate study or additional study as a condition of your offer for the programme, please be aware that the cost for this may be in addition to the programme cost stated above.
Flexible payment plans available
Choose from
two payment plan options
:
Pay monthly and only for the modules you are studying
Pay your full course fees upfront and avoid annual increases
Masters funding options
Depending on where you are from in the UK or EU, and on your pace of study, you may be eligible for a
postgraduate student loan
. Accessible through Student Finance, this is a non-income based loan to help with living costs and tuition fees whilst studying your masters programme.
If you are considering applying for a student loan, please also see our additional guidance on
Loans for Online Students
.
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out more about the Alumni discount
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Current CV
Written reference supplied on headed paper from either a manager, supervisor, tutor or teacher
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Application deadlines
All of our online courses have set start dates throughout the year. We require time to review your application and get back to you with a response before your course starts. Take a look at
information regarding applying for an online course
to see full details of deadlines and term dates.
Careers
Careers aimed at protecting the public and the environment cover a wide range of disciplines and include food safety and integrity, health and safety, waste management, the built environment, pollution control and public health. As an Environmental Health Practitioner, you may work across all areas of environmental health or specialise within a particular field.
As a qualifying course for membership of the CIEH, this programme forms a base for employment in environmental health anywhere in the world. Together with relevant work experience the MSc Environmental Health enables you to further progress to chartered membership status of the CIEH.
Environmental Health Practitioners can be found working in local government or within a chosen discipline working with the private sector such as international food retailers and the hospitality and leisure industry. There are also opportunities to work in public health, with the Environment Agency and in the Health Protection Agency.
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
Strategic Sustainability Management MSc
Sustainability and Environmental Management MSc