Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/biology-zoology-courses/environmental-assessment-control-msc/

Environmental Assessment and Control MSc - Biology and Zoology - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Biology and Zoology
Environmental Assessment and Control MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Environmental Assessment and Control
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, January
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Our innovative MSc focuses on how to prevent and control the contamination of land and freshwater. With its strong emphasis on applying scientific knowledge to real-world problems, it offers you the chance to specialise in an increasingly important environmental field.
Study on a course which is recognised for high professional standards: our MSc is accredited by the
Institution of Environmental Sciences
Gain a specialist qualification to advance your career with government bodies, local authorities, consultancies and industry – in the UK and overseas
Gain an in-depth and holistic understanding of policies and strategies to assess, prevent, manage and control land and freshwater contamination
Apply your knowledge to real-world situations and evaluate the outcomes to make effective strategic decisions
Undertake work placements with employers in a range of settings for practical-based training and practitioner-based learning
Learn from an expert teaching team who conduct crucial research and consultancy work on environmental themes
Embark on a pathway towards becoming a Chartered Environmentalist or Chartered Scientist
Choose a route to suit you: our MSc is ideal for recent graduates seeking a full-time postgraduate course and for mature students already in employment wanting to balance part-time studies with work commitments
The MSc Environmental Assessment and Control gives you insights and skills in addressing land and water contamination problems both strategically and creatively.
Build specialist expertise
This is a multidisciplinary MSc bringing together expertise in areas such as conservation, biology, environmental health and ecosystems. In response to the needs of employers, it also takes an integrated approach to land and water management. Our teaching is underpinned by latest research and we place an emphasis on linking theory to live case studies.
You will explore aspects of contaminated land including legislation and regulation, identification of environmental issues, analysis and remediation, and human health exposure assessment. You will also focus on the environmental monitoring and assessment of freshwater, prevention and control of contamination, drinking water quality and flood defence.
A focus on practical experience
We have joined forces with a range of organisations – local authorities, government agencies, industries and environmental consultancies – to develop the MSc.
Workplace experience is a cornerstone of the programme. Our external partnerships enable you to enhance your practical skills via field and laboratory work and to undertake practitioner training through work placements. While on placement, you will be supported by work-based learning mentors.
Throughout the course, you will gain insights into problem-solving, decision-making and how environmental sampling and analytical techniques are applied in the workplace. Case studies, guest lectures and fieldtrips will bring an extra dimension to this ‘real-world learning’ approach.
Professional recognition
Lending further credibility to your qualification, this programme is accredited by the Committee of Heads of Environmental Sciences (CHES), the education committee of the Institution of Environmental Sciences (IES). CHES is the collective voice of the environmental sciences academic community and serves to enhance the quality of environmental education worldwide.
A programme accredited by CHES is assured to meet high standards, contain a strong component of practical, field and theoretical activities, and has excellent opportunities for training, work experience and links to the professional environmental sector. Students enrolled on CHES accredited programmes can apply for free Student Membership of the IES and for a fast-track route to membership once they graduate.
This programme is aligned with the academic requirements of Registered Environmental Practitioner (REnvP) and starts graduates on a route towards becoming a Chartered Environmentalist or Chartered Scientist.
Our research-active team
You’ll be supported by a highly qualified team renowned for their research and consultancy work in the field of environmental assessment. They publish influential papers, speak at global conferences and serve on the editorial boards of scientific journals. The team includes specialists with high professional standing, such as Chartered Scientist, Chartered Environmentalist, Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy, Fellow of the Zoological Society of London and full member of the Institution of Environmental Management and Assessment (IEMA).
How we're helping corals survive
Our Aquatic Research Facility is carrying out work with organisations across the globe to make coral reefs more resilient in the face of man-made afflictions.
Read more about how we're helping corals
Read more about how we're helping corals
Skills to take you far
We place great emphasis on helping you plan for your personal, educational and career development. At every stage of the course, you will be encouraged to reflect on your own learning, performance and achievement.
Alongside your practical skills and professional knowledge, we equip you with broader attributes and qualities to meet the expectations of employers today. These include leadership, management, communication and teamworking skills – especially important because environmental assessment is usually undertaken by collaborative and multi-disciplinary teams.
New Bioscience Superlab
The University of Derby has been awarded £5.8 million from the Office for Students (OfS) to develop a new technology enhanced Bioscience Superlab and Research Lab with an opening date in 2025.
Find out more about the Superlab and Research Lab
Find out more about the Superlab and Research Lab
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
Some optional modules are available in a distance learning format - if you choose one of these module you will study through distance learning and will access the module wholly online.
Please note:
International students are able to take the online modules in the autumn and spring only.
Modules
Contaminated Land and Remediation
- You’ll gain an understanding of the sources and effects of contaminants in land, and strategies to prevent, control and manage contamination towards a sustainable environment
Freshwater Management -
Investigate the sources and effects of contaminants and management of water quality in freshwater environments such as lakes, rivers, ponds, streams, groundwater and drinking water
Independent Scholarly Activity
– In this triple module, you will plan, conduct and present a piece of original research on a topic of your choice within the area of environmental contamination and remediation
Optional modules:
Practical Training-Based Placement
- Provides links between theory and problem-solving through practical applications. You’ll investigate current environmental aspects through a work placement in a range of areas such as environmental contamination and remediation, human interaction and exposure assessment, environmental management, biodiversity, conservation, and flood defence
Ecological Surveying
- You’ll explore different approaches to surveys for ecology and conservation, including Phase 1 habitat survey, GPS surveying, GIS mapping, and the analysis and classification of freshwater and terrestrial habitats
Analytical Methods for Ecologists
- You’ll become confident and proficient at applying basic univariate statistical analyses and basic multivariate visualisation and analysis methods. The module will also introduce you to the widely-used analysis software ‘R’
Climate Change
- This module aims to develop a sound understanding of the nature and causes of climate change. You'll develop an understanding of the inter-relationships between climate change adaptation and mitigation
Environmental Impact Assessment
- This module aims to develop a sound appreciation of the importance of conducting an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA); an understanding of the techniques used; and an appreciation of what is happening globally in relation to EIA
International Environmental Policy and Law
- This module aims to develop a sound knowledge base and understanding of environmental law and its regulation towards the protection of the environment. Areas covered will range from international agreements, EU legislation, through to UK laws at national and local levels
Flood Risk Engineering Management
- This module will introduce the concepts of flood risk analysis and management within the context of current UK policies and legislation. It will focus on river and urban flooding, including hydraulic modelling techniques, and is designed for anyone who requires an understanding of flood risk and its relevance to river management and development planning
Global Energy Challenges
-
Students will examine a range of energy sources considering mode of provision, financial cost and viability of current and future contributions to the global energy mix. Environmental, ecological and societal impacts and mitigation strategies will be assessed
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
The design and teaching of this course is strongly informed by our teaching team's scholarly and professional activities, such as research and consultancy.
Our team is highly qualified, having specialist expertise in the subject area and high professional standing, such as Chartered Scientist, Chartered Environmentalist, full member of IEMA, Senior Fellow/Fellow of Higher Education Academy, Fellow of the Zoological Society of London.
You will be taught in the classroom through lectures, guest lectures, seminars, and tutorials to develop a strong theoretical understanding of environmental aspects of contaminated land and freshwater to identify environmental issues. You will find practical solutions using case studies, field and laboratory work in independent and team settings, and attain employer-linked study experience through placements with employers.
Assessment of knowledge and applied skills is by coursework, such as essays, practical reports, oral and written presentations, open-book assessment, and project reports/dissertations
Who will teach you
Dr Richard Pope
Programme Leader
Dr Richard Pope
Richard is a Lecturer in Geography at the University of Derby.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
Entry requirements for UK students: You will usually need either an honours degree in a related scientific subject (at least second class) or equivalent experience
Entry requirements for EU/international students: International students should have the above or an international equivalent. If English is not your first language, you will need to hold IELTS 6.0 or above.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
You will be provided with a laboratory coat and safety glasses as required
All equipment and consumables needed for your experimental/field work are provided by the University, this is subject to the consumables required being costed by you and approval from your programme leader
All-day fieldtrips are included in your course fee, previous day trips have been based in and around the city of Derby
Full access to Digimap online and a downloadable mapping service
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
If not already owned, appropriate footwear for fieldwork such as wellington/walking boots - approximate cost is between £10-£100
If not already owned, appropriate outdoor clothing such as a waterproof jacket and trousers - approximate cost is between £50-£100
Optional costs not included in your fees
Professional body accreditation from The Institution of Environmental Science (IES)
Recommended textbooks - approximate cost is £60
Travel to work experience/placements - cost is dependent on your placement venue of choice
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
This course paves the way to careers with government bodies like the Environment Agency and DEFRA, international organisations such as the UN, local authorities, environmental consultancies, water companies and in a wide range of industries where environmental assessment and control is vital. If you are already in employment, it will enhance your promotion prospects and confidence in applying for more senior roles.
The MSc also represents a valuable qualification for professionals working in allied areas who want to broaden their skills. If you are an environmental consultant, for example, you may wish to gain more specialist knowledge of issues like land remediation.
In addition, your studies will give you a firm basis for higher-level qualifications including MPhil/PhD research degrees.
Coupled with relevant experience, the MSc could also put you on the pathway to full membership of professional accreditation bodies such as the Chartered Institute of Water and Environmental Management (CIWEM) or the Institution of Environmental Sciences (IES). Longer term, you could achieve professional status such as Chartered Environmentalist (CEnv). Gaining this recognition will open up new employment opportunities for you and enable you to keep up to date with latest developments in the field.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Conservation Biology MSc
Institute of Acoustics Certificate of Competence in Environmental Noise Measurement
Institute of Acoustics Certificate of Competence in Workplace Noise Assessment