Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/environment-sciences-courses/environmental-impact-assessment-certificate-of-credit-online/

Environmental Impact Assessment Certificate of Credit - Environmental Sciences - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Environmental Sciences
Environmental Impact Assessment Certificate of Credit
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Environmental Impact Assessment Certificate of Credit
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 10 weeks
UK fee
£1,000
(2024/25)
‡
International fee
£1,000
(2024/25)
‡
Start date
May
Location
Online
The level 7 Certificate of Credit in Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is a 20-credit module providing a sound appreciation of the importance of conducting EIA, together with an understanding of the techniques involved. The module, which takes a comparative international outlook and covers changes in EIA regulation and guidelines, also considers the environmental assessment of plans and programmes by strategic environmental assessment (SEA).
This module is suitable for intending and existing environmental management professionals seeking to increase or refresh their knowledge and understanding of the EIA process. While this module is an opportunity to enhance your CPD and add to your professional portfolio, it is also an excellent opportunity to experience our Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment (IEMA)-accredited
Sustainability and Environmental Management MSc
before making a commitment to study the full programme.
By completing this module, you will gain a critical understanding of international environmental assessment practice and its potential for delivering sustainable development.
Accredited by CIWEM, giving you free student membership
This programme is accredited by the
Chartered Institution of Water and Environmental Management (CIWEM)
.
Whilst enrolled on this module you can enjoy free student membership to the
CIWEM
that allows you to:
Keep up to date with the latest best-practice knowledge through their member’s magazine, policy documents and technical journals
Build your professional network through free events and local branches
Enhance your career prospects through professional recognition of your qualification
The CIWEM will support the development of the skills and qualities that employers are looking for, providing you with opportunities to showcase your talents.
Upon completion of this course, you will be eligible to register for graduate membership of CIWEM.
Delivery by experienced academics
We have many years of experience in the delivery of environmental courses online which means you can expect the highest standards of teaching and education. Our team of tutors, made up of research-active academics and practising sustainability professionals, will guide you through the module and provide regular feedback to ensure you stay on track.
You will also have access to a dedicated online learning adviser who will be on hand to support you with pastoral and non-academic matters throughout your studies.
What you will study
We will advise you of your study plan when you are invited to enrol.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
The module is delivered 100% online over 10 weeks using a range of interactive learning materials and some live classroom sessions. Provision is made for discussion and interaction with tutors and fellow students through live virtual classroom sessions and online discussion forums.
You will study alongside students who are on the Sustainability and Environmental Management MSc, giving you a wider perspective of sustainability from your global student community.
Pace of study
We recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete one 20-credit module over a 10-week trimester.
There will be 1/2 virtual classrooms over the 10 week trimester and if you are unable to attend you will be able to download the session to view in your own time.
Assessment method
This course is assessed through 100% coursework with a range of methods, such as essays, research reports, presentations, group work and practical reports.
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Who will teach you
Dr Uchechukwu Okere
Programme Leader
Dr Uchechukwu Okere
Academic Lead for Environmental Management, Dr Uchechukwu Okere, has previously worked with the Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment (IEMA) to deliver professional training courses to environmental professiona...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You will normally require a good first degree in a related subject. However, applicants with professional qualifications or relevant experience can also apply.
English language qualifications
If English is not your first language, or you have not successfully completed your highest level of qualification in English, you will need an English language qualification. For this course you will need at least one of the following:
IELTS (International English Language Testing System) 6.0
TOEFL 550 (paper based) 213 (computer based) or 80 (internet based)
Pearson Test of Academic English: 51
Cambridge Advanced Certificate: Pass
London Tests of English: we accept level 4 for undergraduate courses
International GCE O-level English Language: Grade C
International GCSE English/English as a Second Language: Grade C
Find out more about our English language requirements
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£1,000
1
£1,000
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£1,055
1
£1,055
About your fees
Prices are correct for the year of entry shown. These are subject to annual increase in subsequent academic years.
Flexible payment plan available
Pay monthly
for the course that you are studying
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Current CV
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Application deadlines
All of our online courses have set start dates throughout the year. We require time to review your application and get back to you with a response before your course starts. Take a look at
information regarding applying for an online course
to see full details of deadlines and term dates.
Careers
This Certificate of Credit can act as an ideal form of CPD for those working in sustainability and environmental management. It will provide you with a critical understanding of the principles of EIA and skills required to execute a successful EIA.
Options for further CPD
It is important for environmental professionals and practitioners to stay up to date with the latest trends and developments within the industry through continued professional development. Those looking to further enhance their CPD within sustainability and environmental management can continue their learning with another one of our Sustainability and Environmental Certificate of Credit stand-alone modules:
International Environmental Policy and Law
Tools for Delivering Sustainable Solutions
Sustainable Business Management
Progress on to a masters degree
The 20 credits at level 7 gained from this Certificate of Credit can be transferred as
recognition of prior learning (RPL)
onto a relevant masters degree, subject to meeting all other admission criteria. The 20 credits from this stand-alone module can be used towards module exemptions onto our online MSc Sustainability and Environmental Management.
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
Tools for Delivering Sustainable Solutions to Environmental Problems Certificate of Credit
International Environmental Policy and Law Certificate of Credit
Sustainable Business Management Certificate of Credit