Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/events-management-courses/event-management-ba-hons-with-placement-year/

Event Management BA (Hons) with Placement Year - Event Management - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Event Management
Event Management BA (Hons) with Placement Year
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Event Management with Placement Year
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
N823
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
The highlights
You'll learn how to stage events and so much more: we also give you the management, leadership and entrepreneurial skills needed to excel in the events industry, a rapidly evolving sector that needs reshaping and rebuilding after the Covid pandemic
You'll learn how events, tourism and hospitality overlap to make up the wider 'visitor economy', and work closely with Tourism and Hospitality students - this will broaden your career options
You can study abroad for a semester in stage two, and take a placement year before stage three
All modules align with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, so you will learn to think about the social and environmental impact of events, not just the financial gains.
Future focussed
This  BA (Hons) Event Management degree is designed to give you the management and operational skills needed to succeed in the 2020s and beyond. We have a track record of running successful event management degrees, and now we've updated our curriculum to be even more relevant to the industry today.
In particular, we've included more content about business management, entrepreneurship, sustainability, creativity and design thinking, so you graduate as a modern, adaptable and creative thinker who is not afraid to challenge the status quo and lead on change.
We've also redesigned the modules so that instead of studying specific modules in Finance, Marketing, HR and the other business disciplines, we teach these subjects throughout the course at points where they are most relevant. For instance, you will build your financial knowledge as you learn to create business plans, and you will develop HR and leadership skills as you learn how to change and transform an organisation.
Events and the visitor economy
This programme is part of our Centre for Contemporary Hospitality and Tourism, which has been awarded the prestigious
International Centre of Excellence (ICE) in Tourism and Hospitality accreditation
. The course shares key generic modules with our International Tourism Management and International Hospitality Management degrees, so you can appreciate how these three specialisms work together to make up the 'visitor economy' (the services and experiences that attract visitors to a destination.)
You will still focus on events - through activities, assessments and specialist modules - but you'll also develop broader business management knowledge and get the chance to take optional modules in tourism and hospitality subjects. It means you'll have a wider skillset when you graduate and a greater choice of career paths and postgraduate courses.
Boost your employability with a placement year
You’ll have the opportunity to take a placement year to put the skills you’ve learned into practice in a real-world environment. We'll support you to find your placement and throughout your year in industry. Placements allow you to gain valuable experience to add to your CV, make industry contacts and help you to narrow down what kind of role you may be interested in after graduation.
Practical projects and real events
Throughout the course, you'll be asked to complete a wide range of tasks and activities that an events professional might do, so you build up practical experience and can apply what you're learning.
For example, you'll design, plan and manage virtual, in-person or 'hybrid' events, and learn how to use the latest event technology such as live streaming, surround sound, apps and virtual reality. You'll also get the chance to create promotional videos or brochures for an event, plan and pitch new business proposals, carry out market research and customer satisfaction surveys, produce event safety plans, write bid documents, and evaluate the outcomes of an event.
Derby city and its surroundings are home to many major events venues including Derby Arena, Pride Park Stadium, Derby Conference Centre, Donnington Park and The Roundhouse. Derbyshire also plays host to well-known festivals such as
Y Not
and
Download
. We'll be drawing on our links with events venues and operators in the region, to give you exciting project and networking opportunities. For example, in the past our Event Management students have worked at the Y Not festival, comic book convention Comic Con, and other events for companies like Avant Homes and Peak District Artisans.
Key areas of learning
With this degree, you'll cover the full range of modern-day event management and business management skills. You'll learn to problem-solve and adapt to changing external environments, create successful experiences while considering sustainability, and plan, manage and evaluate projects.
We'll teach you how to research, analyse and present data, as well as how to launch a new business, manage finances and lead teams. You'll also gain vital knowledge about event safety legislation and learn how to assess risk, manage crowds and ensure adequate security is in place.
You'll graduate with a diverse skillset, a 'can-do' attitude and the knowledge and confidence to go out and make your mark in the events industry.
Studying abroad
In stage two of this course, you will get the opportunity to study abroad. You'll be able to choose from a range of countries, such as the Netherlands, Germany, Thailand, Bali and South Africa. It's a great way to experience a different culture, gain a new perspective on your subject, and have an adventure!
Work placements and internships
We'll encourage and support you to take work placements and internships, at home or abroad. In stage two, you must complete at least 30 hours of work experience and then between stages two and three, you can take an optional placement year or a summer internship. This is a valuable opportunity to gain experience and develop your practical skills 'on the job'.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You will build up your knowledge and skills through learning activities like:
lectures - delivered by our tutors and guest speakers
seminars and tutorials
practical projects including planning and managing events
case study analysis
independent study
fieldtrips
placements and internships
networking and mentoring
How you will be assessed
We use a range of assessment methods - predominantly coursework, but there may be some online exams too. Your coursework tasks will be based around the key duties of events professionals and will include writing business proposals, delivering pitches and presentations, drafting project plans and evaluations, creating bid documents and event safety plans.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Vladimir Antchak
Programme Leader
Dr Vladimir Antchak
Vladimir Antchak is a Senior Lecturer in Applied Management at the Centre for Contemporary Hospitality.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
T Level
Pass
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
A Year 1 residential field trip including all essential travel, accommodation and breakfast, and any entry fees
Mandatory fieldwork travel
A Year 2 residential field trip, including all essential travel, accommodation and entry fees
First Aid certificate
Optional costs not included in your fees
Optional international field trip to a new destination annually: Including travel, accommodation and breakfast, and any entry fees. Approximate cost £500
Travel to and from airport must be funded and organised individually
Study and work abroad opportunities, costs vary depending on destination
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Having learned the latest techniques, processes, and technologies for event management, you'll graduate from this degree as a confident and creative event specialist with strong business acumen. If you want to launch your own business or work for a start-up, you'll have the enterprising attitude and attributes that are needed, including resilience, self-awareness and independent thinking.
Or if you prefer to work for an employer, you'll be well-suited to a range of roles in the event, tourism or hospitality sectors, as well as allied industries such as marketing, PR or HR. You could initially apply for roles such as Conference and Event Co-ordinator, Marketing Executive, Business Development Manager, Communications Co-ordinator, but several years down the line, we think you'll be leading, inspiring and shaping the future of the visitor economy.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Other courses you might like
Event Management BA (Hons)