Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/fashion-textiles-courses/fashion-design-ba-hons-foundation/

Fashion Design with Foundation Year BA (Hons) - Fashion and Textiles - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Fashion and Textiles
Fashion Design with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Fashion Design with Foundation Year
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 Years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
W233
Start date
September
Location
Chandos Pole Street, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
Top
20
for career prospects
Fashion & Textiles, Guardian University Guide 2025
100
%
of students agreed that they could explore ideas and concepts in depth
BA (Hons) Fashion Design - National Student Survey 2024
You'll have excellent placement opportunities at companies such as Asos, Alexander McQueen, Puma, Temperley, Aitor Throup, and more.
You'll have the opportunity to exhibit your final collection and your portfolios at the graduate fashion show at
Derby Theatre
. Students are given the opportunity to participate in competitions too. Recent successes from our BA (Hons) Fashion Design degree include Olivia Noble winning the David Nieper Scholarship Award 2019, Freya Whittaker, winner of the Fashanne Design Award 2018, Sarah Woodward was Midlands Emerging Designer winner 2015 and Nicole Wells won St Andrews Young Designer in 2015. We also successfully collaborate with industry to enhance the curriculum with cutting edge learning environments.
In year one you’ll be introduced to the fundamentals of fashion design practice for the ready-to-wear market. In year two there is a greater emphasis on the commercial world. Independent study, throughout year three, provides a unique opportunity for you to advance your thinking and practice, through a self-managed process of risk taking, experimentation and resolution. Contextual Studies and Continuous Professional Development (CPD) runs consistently through all years, aimed at giving you a positive advantage within the fashion industries. As you develop your profile as a creative individual, you’ll experiment with ideas and techniques, working with increased independence.
You will study at our
Chandos Pole Street
building, a purpose built learning environment where you will have access to new specialist Fashion and Textiles facilities. These include light and airy studio spaces as well as industry-standard equipment and design facilities.
We encourage all second years to take a work placement in industry, which will also give you an additional qualification - the Diploma in Professional Practice. Placements are sometimes hard work but give you fantastic experience and are deeply rewarding. We have previously had students placed at a wide variety of companies including, Marks & Spencer, Temperley London, Erdem, Mother of Pearl, Preen, Aitor Throup, Tommy Hilfiger and Roksanda, amongst others.
Students applying from one of the University of Derby's Partner Schools or Colleges are guaranteed a place or interview, if students meet the minimum entry criteria for their chosen course and apply by the January deadline date.
The University supported me with industry-standard equipment, help and support from the fabulous technicians, and excellent tutors who pushed me to reach my potential.
Lucy Taylor
Winner, Midlands Fashion Awards ‘Midlands Young Designer of the Year 2019'*
*Lucy Taylor with her collection ‘Convergence’ Photo by Beth Winsor from Cameo Lab Fine Art Photography
Fashion with a positive purpose
Muroj is on a mission to shake up the fashion industry with her inclusive designs and desire for change.
Read more
Read more
The course provides the space and freedom to be creative and the tutors have so much knowledge and fashion industry insight to help you refine and develop your skills in a professional way.
Caughley Harris
BA (Hons) Fashion Design student
In the below video, Johanna reflects on her experience as an international student studying Fashion at Derby and the inspiration behind her final menswear collection:
Recent successes
You'll have the opportunity to exhibit your final collection and your portfolios at the graduate fashion show at Chandos Pole Street and participate in competitions. Recent successes from our BA (Hons) Fashion Design course include:
Marina Mendes was awarded the winning collection from the University of Derby and Hertfordshire University Joint Catwalk Show at Graduate Fashion Week 2022 along with Lydia Strickler being awarded highly commended from the same show. Both collections joined the 'Best of GFW22 Collections' and Marina Mendes was also named as one of the new innovative designers to watch by The Guardian in a review of Graduate Fashion Week 2022
Anika Vo winning the Menswear Design category and Parasto Qalandari winning the Womenswear Design category at the FASHANNE Fashion Designers of the Future Awards 2021
Georgia Alligan winning the John Smedley category at the Campaign for Wool Student Design Competition 2020
Lucy Taylor winning Midlands Young Designer of the Year, Midlands Fashion Awards 2019
Olivia Noble winning the David Nieper Scholarship Award 2019
Freya Whittaker, winner of the Fashanne Design Award 2018
Sarah Woodward was Midlands Emerging Designer winner 2015
Nicole Wells won St Andrews Young Designer in 2015.
Recent successes from our BA (Hons) Fashion Design and Marketing course include:
Dominica Buonasorte winning the Sustainability category and Sofie Nikl winning the Commercial Design category at the FASHANNE Fashion Designers of the Future Awards 2021.
We also successfully collaborate with industry to enhance the curriculum with cutting edge learning environments.
The industry links this course has are invaluable and the teaching team are great in supporting students find excellent placements and start to develop their career paths.
Elanor Hurst
Fashion graduate and Dr Martens apprentice
Alexey Morozov celebrates first birthday at Banks Mill Studio
Alexey, who graduated from the University of Derby in June 2017 with a BA (Hons) Degree in Fashion Design moved into Banks Mill in August 2019 to work on his business idea, and officially launched MRZV by Morozov in November.
Find out more about Alexey's growing business
Find out more about Alexey's growing business
What you will study
Take a look at highlights from the Fashion Show...
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You'll be taught by a variety of learning and teaching methods which include: problem solving, reflective practice, analysis of given problem with synthesis of solution, portfolio building, group work, the use of influences files, report writing, group critiques, negotiated learning, presentation and demonstration.
Assessment is 100% coursework based including practical production and oral presentation work, along with written assignments. In the final year, you’ll have the opportunity to write an extended essay on a subject of your choice and work on self-negotiated and independent creative projects.
The programme makes use of field trips in a number of ways to inform and inspire students. Putting students in direct contact with significant cultural and commercial organisations and events, expands learning and understanding of the fashion world. Placements play a key role here too and in addition, create opportunities for students to network.
The programme regularly invites guests from industry to make a contribution to student learning. Guests from industry come in to deliver lectures, participate in tutorials and deliver external projects to students on a regular basis each academic year.
A viewing of ERDEM 'Imaginary Conversations'
In 2024, Fashion students visited Chatsworth House to view the ERDEM Exhibition
'Imaginary Conversations'
.
This exhibition celebrated the image and legacy of the late dowager Duchess Deborah Devonshire and the Devonshire Collections through the Spring Summer 2024 collection of fashion designer Erdem Moralioĝlu MBE. Students were given an insight into the craftsmanship and tools used to create the collection which translated Duchess Deborah Devonshire's legacy into contemporary fashion. Find out more about
student and graduate
opportunities
through the University of Derby's strategic partnership, which includes The Chatsworth House Trust.
"My favourite part of the exhibition was the insight given into Erdem's narrative development that ran in alignment to creating his garments. It was really interesting to see how he applied rather personal features of Duchess Deborah's life to the garments themselves. I could see the cohesion between each piece but also feel the emotion drilled into the designs. I also loved the experience of seeing the garments and fabric selections in person. I look forward to printmaking due to my love of painting and hopes of applying this to fashion, and Erdem has modelled how that is possible. Along with other textual details like the embroidery and brooches which emanate a sense of attention to detail. Overall, I thoroughly enjoyed the exhibition and found it very insightful to the role of fashion designer."
Erin Higgins, BA (Hons) Fashion Design
ERDEM - Imaginary Conversations
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Cameron Jinks
Programme Leader
Cameron Jinks
Cameron is a Senior Lecturer in Commercial Photography.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
Offers will be made initially based on your application, including predicted grades and/or grades you have already achieved. You may be given the opportunity, within your offer letter, to submit a portfolio. If you submit a strong portfolio we will make you an unconditional offer, to reflect the quality of your work and your potential.
Additional entry requirements
Portfolio: Recommended -
view portfolio details
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Additional access to wider University Arts' facilities including equipment loan store and other facilities, such as digital print workshops or video editing
The programme uses Adobe Creative Suite which is installed on all Macs in MS102 and MS012 at Markeaton Street and students are provided with an individual Adobe Creative Cloud subscription for home use
To support their professional and skills development, students are provided with a subscription to LinkedIn Learning which offers over 13,000 courses and tutorials, including professional accreditations, in a wide range of creative, business & technology disciplines
Basic materials such as fabrics and other fashion related construction materials are provided for set coursework tasks in Year 1 and 2
Participation in University Degree Show plus a Graduate Catwalk show with professional models and VIP Reception provided
Participation in London Graduate Fashion Week, access to specialist equipment in the fashion studio and related areas such as printmaking workshops and relevant textile workshop areas
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
USB Flash Drive, or external hard drive (could be up to approx. £20 depending on brand and storage capacity)
A1 Portfolio (£20)
A4 Sketchbook x 6 (approx. £5 each, approx. £30 total)
Drawing materials: paints, inks, charcoal, compressed charcoal, eraser, ruler, scissors, paintbrushes, craft knife (approx. £60)
Toolbox to keep drawing equipment in (approx. £20)
Optional costs not included in your fees
Additional course-related publications (approx. costs £100)
Specialist software/hardware (costs up to £1500)
Travel for work placement opportunities (costs will vary depending on location)
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Our graduates have gone on to careers in fashion design, textile design for fashion or interiors, knitwear, sportswear and accessories design, fashion forecasting, illustration, PR, marketing, media, buying and merchandising, photographic styling... and lots more.
You'll get lots of opportunities to showcase your work and get yourself noticed. Some of our students took a collection to London Alternative Fashion Week.
You could also go on to study our
MA/MDes Design
.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Fashion Design BA (Hons)
Fashion Design and Marketing BA (Hons)
Fashion Styling and Communication BA (Hons)
Design MA/MDes