Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/mineral-products/mineral-extractives-technology-fdsc/

FdSc Mineral Extractives Technology - Mineral courses - University of Derby
Study
Mineral courses
FdSc Mineral Extractives Technology
Apply now
Apply now
Professional Course
FdSc Mineral Extractives Technology
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Course code
CAAGM
Course credits
240 credits
Next course date
September
Duration
2-3 years part time
Location
Enterprise Centre
Course description
The distinctive nature of this programme is represented by the flexibility of its design and delivery. Its construction and innovative modes of delivery recognise the diverse and dispersed nature of not only the industry itself, but the potential student body it will serve. Due to the geographical spread of the industry, manufacturing sites and offices are often remote and isolated. Technical and operational staff very often spend a significant proportion of their time working outdoors, can be transient (with seasonal working activities sometimes playing a part) and they may also find that they are suddenly re-located, in some cases abroad. The provision offered within this programme of study, has had to evolve to meet the needs of such learners: taking advantage not only of traditional teaching and learning techniques, but utilising the most advanced learning technology for teaching, learning, supervision and assessment.
Key Characteristics
The programme is designed to enable agile delivery of the teaching and learning activities. The programme delivery model comprises a blended distance learning model, which allows on-line learning material to be supported by face-to-face sessions.
Delivery of face-to-face teaching is undertaken at the Enterprise Centre which provides a more corporate environment.
The programme develops a strategic, holistic, and integrated perspective of operations, finance and commercial management of the Mineral Products sector.
Assessment strategies allow direct application of knowledge learned which is directly related to the workplace.
The programme enables the following opportunities:
Equips learners for shortfall in international, national and local development needs.
Develops the learner’s knowledge and understanding of the Mineral Products sector and the context in which they operate, including global and environmental influences.
Prepares individuals to be operationally effective in management positions in the Mineral Products industry by providing them with the tools to achieve this, a strong theoretical base and a range of skills relevant to today’s business practice.
Enables a learner to develop their intellectual breadth and be able to make integrative links across the various areas of their organisations.
Develops knowledge and skills to enable a leader/manager to be responsive to change.
Increases capacity to learn, both on the programme and as independent lifelong learners following completion of the programme.
To act as a role model, with responsibility for those in senior positions.
Provides an academically rigorous and challenging programme of study aligned with the QAA Qualification Framework enhancing critical and reflective practice.
Provides flexible learning opportunities in a diverse environment that widens participation.
Accredited by JBM
This qualification is accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM) comprising the Institution of Civil Engineers, Institution of Structural Engineers, Institute of Highway Engineers, the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation and the Permanent Way Institution on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirements for registration as an Engineering Technician (EngTech) and partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as an Incorporated Engineer (IEng). Candidates must hold a Bachelors (with or without honours) accredited as Further Learning for IEng to hold accredited qualifications for IEng registration. See
www.jbm.org.uk
for further information and details of Further Learning programmes for IEng.
Structure, certificates and assessment
Year One
Engineering & Mathematics
The principles of mathematics, and mechanical and electrical engineering are fundamental to the operation of production, processing and mobile plant. This module aims to develop an understanding of the principles and concepts of basic mechanics and to introduce the basic theories and concepts of electricity, electrical circuits, electrical measurement, magnetism and electromagnetic induction. Furthermore, the module aims to develop a wider understanding of the use of mathematical principles and techniques and apply them to applications in the fields of engineering and mineral products technology.
Industry Introduction
This module provides the learner with an underpinning knowledge and understanding of the Mineral Products Industry. The module will introduce the learner to the economic importance of the industry, its role in modern economies, and how it underpins the very fabric of civilisation. It will explore its roots in geosciences, providing an understanding of the chemistry and geology of the planet and its application in the evolution and exploitation of the minerals its mines. It explores the widespread nature of the industry across the United Kingdom and globally. Fundamental to working in this industry, particularly in the operational areas, is an understanding and competence in the recognition and application of health, safety, and environmental awareness. Furthermore, the leaner will gain knowledge of emergency planning procedures and the safe use and guarding of machinery and equipment used within the mineral products sector. Finally, learners will be introduced to both first aid in the context of the work environment and also mental health to keep pace with industry guidelines and best practice.
Industry & the Environment
Central to this module is the development of knowledge in the field of geology that is beneficial to the safe and effective operation of mineral extraction and construction sites and the identification of geological hazards. This module also introduces the general concepts of workplace health and safety with particular attention to noise and hazardous substances. A further element to this module is the introduction of sustainability and in particular corporate, social responsibility, standards, and governance in the context of the mineral products industry. Key topics are discussed and developed including climate change, net zero and performance reporting. Furthermore, the impact of biodiversity, geodiversity and natural capital as applied to the mineral products industry are described and discussed.
Learning, Thinking & Study Skills in Higher Education
This module gives learners the opportunity to identify and reflect on their own strengths and weaknesses, to enable personal developmental planning needs, to be identified as they begin to progress through their learning journey within the Mineral Products industry. It provides learners with the basic knowledge and tools required to recognise and review their personal learning and thinking skills. It explores with them how they can identify and assess their developmental progress and equips them with the skills needed for academic study, writing and progression. It will provide examples of how they can use this knowledge and the associated tools within the context of their workplace in the Mineral Products industry. This module will also provide learners with an introduction to British Values, PREVENT and Safeguarding followed by leadership, which will supplement their developmental and employability potential within the work context. In addition, specifically for apprenticeship learners this module will introduce the Knowledge and Skills required to prepare and develop an e-portfolio required for End Point Assessment purposes.
Year Two
Engineering Principles & Theory
The engineering concept within the mineral products sector is fundamental to the successful operation of static and mobile plant. This module will develop an understanding of the theory and principles of mechanics and their application within the sector. The principles and concepts associated with heat and fuels and their application in burners are introduced and awareness of engineering materials and of the fundamental principles of corrosion in relation to beams and fixed structures is developed. Furthermore, this module will focus on an understanding of the principles and concepts associated with the use of AC electricity and its application within the sector before extending the students understanding of electrical power transmission systems, electric motors and generators.
Construction Products Technology
Mineral resources form the basis of most products used in construction. This module develops knowledge of the technology, EN standards, specifications and other requirements that apply to these products. It will include aspects such as the methods used to sample and test aggregates, bituminous mixtures, cement and concrete, and bricks in a safe manner. In addition, the module will develop knowledge of the technology, characteristics and Standards used in customer specifications for these products. The module also provides knowledge of the techniques used to manage product quality to satisfy the needs of the customer.
Business & Operational Management
This module develops the operational, business and financial knowledge and skills necessary to achieve the effective management of a mineral products facility. This includes an understanding of the human implications of running a successful business. The module also recognises the importance of communication (written and none written skills), people and values in developing a positive workplace culture. Furthermore, the concepts and principles of asset management are introduced to develop skills in relation to performance measurement and monitoring. To meet with modern day challenges students are also provided with the fundamentals of building a sustainable business and the concept of cyber security. Additionally, for apprentices this module supports and develops completion of the e-portfolio required for End Point Assessment purposes.
Mineral Extraction & Transportation
This module provides an understanding of the issues associated with the exploration, and development of a mineral extraction site both here in the UK and internationally. It will also develop knowledge of a range of health, safety, and environmental issues, which are relevant to mineral extraction operations, particularly in respect of risk control and the prevention of health and safety incidents and accidents. Furthermore, the module develops the learners understanding of the techniques and principles employed in the extraction and transportation of minerals together with associated health, safety, and environmental issues in relation to current best practice and guidance.
Year Three
Production Facility Engineering
In relation to the Mineral Products industry, this module develops an awareness of the need for lubrication, bearings, and an understanding of the principles and concepts associated with hydraulic systems, their application and associated dangers. Also, the module introduces mechanical power transmission systems and develops an understanding of the behaviour of gases and how these are applied to the construction and operation of compressors, pumps and internal combustions engines. An understanding of asset prioritisation and plant operating and planned, preventative maintenance schemes are also developed along with process control concepts in relation to automation and digitisation. Furthermore, the module develops knowledge and awareness in relation to 3 phase and circuit control, power factor and correction, electrical safety, earthing, earth leakage and overcurrent protection.
Minerals Management & Processing
The module develops knowledge of a range of health, safety, and environmental issues in terms of best practice and guidance, which are relevant to extractives operations worldwide, particularly in respect of risk control and the prevention of health and safety incidents and accidents. The issues associated with sustainable development, reclamation of mineral workings, managing waste and an understanding of best practice in relation to environmental law and legislation and its implication for the minerals extractive industry are also covered. Furthermore, the module aims to develop knowledge and understanding of minerals processing and its applications within the industry, including feeding, crushing, screening, washing, separation, classification, and beneficiation techniques. The manufacture of cement is also included within the module.
Blasting Operations
This module is designed to enhance the skills and knowledge of personnel in the field of blasting. The objective of this module is to provide participants with a greater understanding of the requirements of blasting so that they are able to carry out their responsibilities in a safe and environment conscious manner, without risk of causing injury or damage and to maximise blasting performance whilst optimising overall operating costs.
Mineral Products Workbased Project
This module brings together the learner’s knowledge of the industry gained from the programme and asks them to offer a detailed discussion of a problematic area and locate it within the wider context of current academic and professional thinking as presented in the literature and within the context of the area of the Mineral Product industry in which they work. Learners will be expected to demonstrate the ability to diagnose an organisational issue, to present this issue in a coherent manner, and to draw conclusions from their reading, personal analysis and workplace experience.
How you will learn
The programme is influenced by the principles of work-based learning. As such a flexible range of teaching and learning methodologies are used relevant to particular groups or practices. For example:
Face to face taught modules combining tutor input with structured opportunities for discussion, reflection and planning for workplace application.
Learning opportunities identified and taken directly from the learner’s workplace situation.
Action learning sets and other facilitated group activities.
Individual reflection on learning.
Technology enhanced learning using a sophisticated virtual learning environment (VLE).
At undergraduate level, the emphasis is on fostering independent learning, whilst providing a supporting environment in which to study at higher level. One of the key aims of any undergraduate programme is to produce an independent learner capable of properly managing their time and resources to identify issues, decide how to collect and analyse evidence and reach reasoned evidence based conclusions, and to subsequently present this information via various methods of communication (written and oral).
Indicative methods of assessment include activities such as:
practical projects focused on particular workplaces
management and technical reports
annotated presentations
reflective portfolios or collections of work completed throughout the module / programme
E-assessments via the Virtual Learning Environment
problem solving tasks
varied writing tasks and oral assessment
practical assessment of professional competence
These indicative approaches will be used to test attainment of knowledge and understanding as well as skills and capabilities thereby promoting ‘deep learning’.
Entry requirements
This Foundation Degree is designed for those already employed within the sector, or recently new to the sector who have a requirement to further develop their skills and knowledge, and progress their career.
The following broad criteria applying for entry:
Learners are employed or have affiliation with an employer.
Learners will have been nominated to attend following a review/discussion with their line manager and/or recruitment manager.
Learners will have been identified by the organisation as being able to succeed on the programme.
The selection of participants is consistent with the University’s equal opportunities policies and sensitive to legal obligations to avoid discrimination on the basis of gender, race or disability.
Learners can demonstrate English language capability to that of GCSE English Language, IELTS 6.0 or its equivalent as a prerequisite of enrolment on the programme.
Learners will complete an application form as provided by the University of Derby and meet the above requirements.
Learners must be at, or over the age of 18 upon the commencement date of their programme.
While the ultimate responsibility for ensuring that learners meet entry requirements and acceptance on to programmes rests with the University of Derby, employers typically nominate the majority of learners expected onto this programme. The prior experience of learners is a key factor in programme design and development as such employers, potential learners, professional bodies, and key stakeholders have been consulted during the programme development stage.
Fees and funding
UK and EU students
Year 1
£2,575
Year 2
£3,165
Year 3
£3,910
International students
Year 1
£3,165
Year 2
£4,025
Year 3
£4,880
*These fees apply if you’re starting this course between September 2023 and August 2024. We recommend you check fee details with us though, as they can change.
How to apply
Students should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Who will teach you
Chris Rowan
Programme leader
Chris is Programme Leader and Senior Lecturer Mineral Extractives Technology.
View full staff profile
View full staff profile
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Mineral Extractives Technology
E:
mineralproducts@derby.ac.uk
01332 591066
(option 6)
Programme Leader: Chris Rowan
E:
c.rowan@derby.ac.uk
01332 567963
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us