Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/film-media-courses/film-high-end-television-production-ba-hons/

Film and High-end Television Production BA (Hons) - Film and Media - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Film and Media
Film and High-end Television Production BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Film and High-End Television Production
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 Years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
120
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
W621
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
The highlights
You will be taught by tutors who are still successful in the film and TV industry today. They have worked on feature films, TV dramas, promotional videos and sports broadcasts
You will work with the best digital cameras, just like those used for Hollywood blockbusters
There’s the option to work with traditional celluloid film (35mm), which is what most blockbuster productions use. Few UK film degrees offer this
Our film students have a track record of winning high-profile industry competitions, such as the Royal Television Society Awards and the NAHEMI Kodak Student Commercial Awards
You will have many opportunities to gain experience on real film and TV sets, plus we offer a career-making six-month placement with Malta Production Hub.
Top
25
for student satisfaction
Drama, Dance and Cinematics subject area, Complete University Guide 2025
Top
25
for student experience
Drama, Dance and Cinematics subject area, Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
2
nd
for career prospects
Film Production & Photography - Guardian University Guide 2025
Top
5
for learning resources
Cinematics and Photography - National Student Survey 2024
100
%
of students agreed that staff are good at explaining things
BA (Hons) Film and High-End Television Production - National Student Survey 2024
For ambitious and creative film-makers
Explore the most exciting and challenging areas of contemporary film and high-end TV-making on a course designed to get you noticed in an intensely competitive industry. If you aspire to make big-budget productions for cinemas or small-screen streaming platforms like Netflix and Amazon, this course will suit you. You’ll need to be highly creative, passionate and dedicated.
This degree is based on our long-established and successful BA (Hons) Film Production, and has been updated and renamed to be relevant to the media industry of the 2020s. We recognise that students today will want to make productions for streaming platforms just as much as for the big screen, so our course content has been updated to reflect this. We also give you the chance to experiment with other forms of media-making — such as apps, web video, podcasts and other digital content — so that you are prepared for the ‘multiplatform’ nature of the media industry today.
How 'Sweet Sensation' helped launch Omar's film career
While studying with us, Omar directed an advert that won an industry award and has now gone on to work for Netflix.
Read more
Read more
Film and Photography - your questions answered
In the below video, Associate Professor, Christine Parker, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Film and Photography at the University of Derby.
View Film and Photography - your questions answered! video transcript
From raw talent to real deal
Through a blend of practical projects and more traditional teaching, you’ll develop the creative, technical and theoretical expertise needed to work within the moving image sector. We’ll cover these key areas:
Screenwriting and directing
Cinematography, sound and editing
Production, including 1st assistant directing
Film history and theory
Research skills
Employability skills.
You’ll work on a series of productions in a variety of on-set and post-production roles. The length and complexity of these productions will increase as you move through the course.
We are one of the few film courses in the UK which teach you to use both RED and ARRI cameras (high-spec digital cameras that the film industry use) as well as traditional celluloid or ‘35mm’. By the end of your final year, you will have built up an impressive portfolio of work that will help you gain employment or get accepted onto postgraduate programmes.
We’ll also make sure you leave with a great understanding of the film and television industry so you know how to create products that get seen by an audience. Plus, you will develop the professional skills you’ll need to deal with clients, commercial briefs, audiences and markets.
Launching a production company
Four film graduates launched their business while studying and now create content full time.
Read how Goldbox Productions was formed
Read how Goldbox Productions was formed
Developing you as an artist
As well as developing your technical, commercial and professional abilities, we’re also focused on helping you develop as an artist. You will be challenged to think beyond conventional ideas about media content, and explore how you can push and break boundaries. We’ll encourage you to experiment and see failures as a learning opportunity, as you develop your own unique voice.
Experience real film and TV sets
Thanks to our high-profile teaching team, you’ll get plenty of opportunities to work on real film and TV sets, for instance as runners and crowd marshalls. In addition, final year students get the chance to compete for a six-month placement with a production company in Malta, which is one of the most popular locations for films outside of America. This is potentially a career-making opportunity, and has led to some phenomenal successes.
Mari Olan spent a five-month placement at Malta Film Studios and worked on a variety of film projects, including acting as Second Assistant Director on a major film production.
View A Space Apart video transcript
Showcase your work. Win awards.
All our students get the chance to showcase their work in festivals and competitions. In 2019, our students took home three top prizes from The Royal Television Society Awards, including The Sir Lenny Henry Award for Excellence. While in 2020, student
Omar Soomro
won his category at the NAHEMI Kodak Commercials Awards.
The culmination of the course is the opportunity to screen your work at our prestigious film premiere evening held at
Quad
: the Derby arts centre which celebrates visual arts, film and media. Part of our annual
Degree Show
, the evening begins with a VIP reception which offers you vital networking opportunities. In previous years the screening has attracted guests of honour such as the Editor-at-Large for
Empire
magazine Nev Pierce, Director John Stevenson (
Kung Fu Panda
) and legendary British cinematographer Robin Vidgeon. It could also be a springboard to national exposure for your work.
My exchange experience: An internship in Malta
Mari Olan successfully applied for work experience at Malta Film Studios, one of the largest production facilities in the world. She worked as a 2nd Assistant Director, and towards her dive license at weekends!
Dive into Mari's story
Dive into Mari's story
The Film department at Derby promotes individual and group filmmaking which is necessary for both freelancing and industry work. I graduated with a First Class Honours as an award-winning filmmaker and have gone on to work internationally.
Josh Timmins
Film Production graduate
Facilities
All art and design courses are based at our
Markeaton Street
site where modern, purpose built studios and labs provide a modern creative space for our arts students. Markeaton Street encompasses
Chandos Pole Street
(home to our Fashion and Textiles courses) and
Britannia Mill
(home to Fine Arts). Students on any of our theatre related courses also get to study at
Derby Theatre
, and Dance students study at Déda.
Markeaton Street is a 15 minute walk from Kedleston Road, and is serviced by regular free site shuttle buses.
Find out everything you need to know about our University in one click with our Virtual Tour.
Markeaton Street
Media and Film Studios
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
We use a variety of teaching methods, including:
Practical work and production projects
Lectures, seminars and tutorials
Studio practice
Film screenings
Presentations
Essay or blog writing
Web-portfolios
Discussion groups and critiques
Study trips to places like Prague, New York, Portugal and Malta.
How you will be assessed
It’s 100% coursework. This usually includes tasks like:
Making films and other media
Writing reflective journals or essays
Keeping production folders of concepts and developments
Giving presentations.
Who you'll meet
Every single member of our teaching team is actively involved in the film and television industry. They include:
Barry Squires
: A Focus Puller for the film and broadcast industry, who has worked on Peter Kay’s
Car Share
and for CBBC children’s drama, BBC Match of the Day and BT Sport
Nigel Douglas: A BAFTA-winning producer/director with extensive broadcast television experience, including on
This Life
,
Holby City
and
Bad Girls
Stephen Watson
: A Cinematographer and Digital Cinema Production Consultant, who has worked on British cult classic
Dead Man’s Shoes and on
numerous commercial and promotional films for clients such as Disney Junior Channel, Channel 4, ITV and Warp Films
Tom Craig
: Programme Leader for this course and also a writer, producer and specialist in film financing. Working with the Malta Film Commission, he has helped finance over thirty short films, features and documentaries
Film and TV Studios
Our Markeaton Street site has a dedicated film and television studio space for teaching and student projects - and experienced technicians who provide support.
Take a look at the studios
Take a look at the studios
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Tom Craig
Programme Leader
Tom Craig
As a Programme Leader and Senior Lecturer in Film Theory and criticism, Tom Craig teaches across a wide variety of modules on the BA (Hons) Film and High-end Television Production. He has substantial experience in Film Finance, product...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
120
A Level
BBB
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DDM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 21, Merit: 24, Pass: 0
Offers will be made initially based on your application, including predicted grades and/or grades you have already achieved. You may be given the opportunity, within your offer letter, to submit a portfolio. If you submit a strong portfolio we will make you an unconditional offer, to reflect the quality of your work and your potential.
Additional entry requirements
Portfolio: Recommended -
view portfolio details
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Participation in Degree Show screening at QUAD
Here at Derby, we provide excellent learning resources, libraries and specialist laboratories and studios
The programme uses Adobe Creative Suite which is installed on all Macs in MS102 and MS012 at Markeaton Street and students are provided with an individual Adobe Creative Cloud subscription for home use
To support their professional and skills development, students are provided with a subscription to LinkedIn Learning which offers over 13,000 courses and tutorials, including professional accreditations, in a wide range of creative, business & technology disciplines
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Additional materials (printing, stationery, portfolio sleeves, folders, USBs/hard drives etc.)
There will be occasions when you will be expected to attend exhibitions, screenings, performances and festivals. You will need to budget for these over each academic year
Two study visits (one in year 1 and one in year 2).
Optional costs not included in your fees
Additional course related publications (approx. costs £100)
Final year project costs (costs determined by student, on average are £200-£600)
We provide full details of all course fees, but extra costs may include field trips (approx. cost £200-£400)
Additional expenses incurred by students (average £50 a head) are usually covered by fund raising e.g. crowd funding (training provided for this as part of professional practice)
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
This course will prepare you for a range of specialist careers, in moving image production or in the wider creative industries. For example, graduates from our previous Film Production degree have gone on to work as:
technicians in sound, lighting and grips
production personnel such as production assistants and runners
independent personnel such as script writers, directors of photography, editors, art directors, cinematographers, animation specialists, producers and directors.
Many of our graduates have achieved success as feature film directors and music video artists. They have worked on major film projects such as
Assassin’s Creed
and
13 Hours
while others have worked for the BBC, ITV, MTV, Disney and leading music labels.
You'll also build up a range of transferable skills, useful for any career. For instance, you’ll have great oral and written communication skills, be able to manage projects, and be good at identifying and finding relevant source materials.
You can also take your skills to the next level on our
MA Film and Screen Production
.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Film and High-end Television Production with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Film and Screen Production MA