Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/criminology-policing-courses/financial-investigation-digital-intelligence-msc/

Financial Investigation and Digital Intelligence MSc - Criminology and Policing - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Criminology and Policing
Financial Investigation and Digital Intelligence MSc
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Financial Investigation and Digital Intelligence
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 18 months,  Part-time: 36 months
UK fee
£9,450  per year of study*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 per year of study
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Derby Campus
Advance your investigative career in the public or private sector
Develop the skills you need to apply modern investigative techniques, both financial and digital
Respond to the diversity of crime and victimisation with evidence-based policy, research and investigative strategy and tactics
Use our practitioner-focused platform to pursue your interests and develop your chosen topic area to produce a novel contribution to the literature and field of practice
Engage with a programme that has been designed by practitioners, for practitioners
Key focuses
This course will place a consistent focus on the study of professional investigative practice across the following themes:
Focusing on financial and digital investigation and intelligence in the context of the discipline of criminology, whilst drawing upon selected insights from specialist fields
The theoretical and conceptual challenge of what investigation should look like, and the challenges of implementation in practice
A shift in mind-set and the use of lateral thinking to disentangle and critically assess problems to identify opportunities for effective practice using financial and digital techniques
Assess criminality and victimisation through the medium of financial and digital techniques, and the footprint that these create for investigative purposes
Each of these fields provide a base of principles, knowledge and intellectual skills, subject specific skills and transferable skills that underpins the expectation level for the professional practitioner and the postgraduate student.
Highest standard of education
The MSc Financial Investigation and Digital Intelligence is based on the specific context of practitioners operating under UK legislation, policy and regulation. Most of the principles will be generically applicable to many countries, and the programme will include selected reference to benchmarks for international standards and frameworks for cross-border collaboration between the public sector (law enforcement) and private sector.
A course to match your career aspirations
This programme is designed to appeal to the graduate student, practitioners, and investigators with interests in issues such as cybercrime, fraud, organised crime, money laundering, terrorist finance, crime scripting, victimology and criminology.
Flexible study options
Alongside the 18 month full-time route to the MSc which is spread across 3 semesters (autumn and spring semester in year 1, and autumn semester in year 2), we also offer a 36 month part-time route so that you can study at a time and pace to suit you.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
This course is made up of three stages - Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma and MSc.
Postgraduate Certificate
Candidates will study three core modules:
Fundamentals of Financial and Digital Investigation
A platform that will assist you to systemically and critically assess any form of criminality or victimisation, identifying opportunities for integrated approaches utilising financial and digital information, intelligence and evidence.
Financial Intelligence
Offering critical insight on how to develop financial intelligence as a standardised tool. It will focus on the context of the effective and ethical development, control and sharing of information, intelligence and evidence to support investigations.
Digital Intelligence
Providing insight towards how to develop digital intelligence as a standardised tool. It will offer reflection on contemporary crime and victimisation, deconstruct the problem of 'cybercrime' into pre-existing categories of harm, and apply criminology and victimology insights to policy and practice.
Postgraduate Diploma
Candidates will study three core modules:
Applied Research in Criminal Justice Systems
Developing the skills, knowledge and practical expertise to undertake advanced applied research at masters-level. It will provide tuition in qualitative and quantitative research while considering the politics and ethics of research.
Financial Investigation
Offering critical evaluation of the possibilities and limitations of financial investigation as a standardised tool. It will emphasise professional practice to identify, investigate, confiscate, forfeit or otherwise remediate the proceeds of/for crime.
Digital Investigation
Offering critical assessment and application of criminology theory to digital investigation as a standardised tool. It will focus on the 'real-world' harm associated with cybercrime, and the use of digital evidence in the context of existing investigatory powers.
Note: Prior to undertaking the Postgraduate Diploma, the Postgraduate Certificate must be completed.
MSc
Independent Study
During this triple module, candidates will use their accumulated knowledge and intellectual skills to carry out a systematic inquiry and academically rigorous study of a significant topic of their choice relevant to the field of investigation. Under the supervision of one of our team of specialist researchers and drawing upon our considerable professional investigative experience, candidates will generate a masters-level dissertation that can be used to showcase their skills and interests towards their current or future investigative role and organisation.
Please note: modules are subject to availability, and may change to suit the needs of industry.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You will study via a mixture of lectures, seminars and group work. Some elements of the course may be delivered via e-learning through group discussion boards and electronic resources, this enabling some degree of flexibility for you to study when it is convenient for you.
There is also a focus on being reflective, encouraging you to think about how the course is helping you to improve your professional and career development.
How you will be assessed
Candidates will be assessed by their application of a practical or theoretical theme with respect to the prescribed essay and learning objectives for each module. They will select a relevant and topical challenge of choice, in relation to professional practice, law-enforcement, victim-engagement or crime prevention.
Candidates who are completing the MSc stage will develop and submit for assessment an empirical dissertation research project on a relevant and topical challenge of their choice.
Who you will meet
You will be taught by a team of engaging and inspiring subject experts. Reflecting the practice-oriented nature of the course within masters-level accredited academic study, the team is made up of experienced practitioners as well as academics who have researched widely on criminal investigation issues and related fields.
Dr David Hicks
David Benford
Dr
Craig Hughes
Who will teach you
Dr David Hicks
Programme Leader
Dr David Hicks
As Programme Leader for the MSc Financial Investigation and Digital Intelligence and the MSc Criminal Investigation, David Hicks supports candidates in masters level research skills achievement and their application to the challenges o...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
At least a 2:2 from your first degree, or the equivalent. If your first degree is not in the social sciences or related subjects such as criminology, criminal justice, policing, sociology, psychology and economics, please contact the Programme Leader.
If your first language is not English, you will need to evidence a proficiency in English (IELTS 6.5 with 5.5 in each skill area).
We also welcome applicants who may not have an undergraduate degree (or equivalent) but who have substantial and relevant professional experience.
If you are unsure whether you meet the entry criteria, contact the Programme Leader who will be happy to supply further advice.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  per year of study*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 per year of study
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 per year of study*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 per year of study
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Enhanced police security vetting conducted by and for Derbyshire Police, where appropriate for research purposes.
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Some nominal travel and subsistence costs relating to your involvement in voluntary placements or internships to support you in designing and conducting your dissertation research
If dissertation is paper-based, then there are photocopying costs attached to printing information, consent forms, data collection instruments, and debriefing form. These pages are then multiplied by the number of research participants. Alternatively, you may elect to pursue electronic forms in this case you do not have the paper costs above but rather the subscription fee of £25-£35 per month.
Optional costs not included in your fees
Students with interests in financial and digital investigation and intelligence may be encouraged to take a “student membership” with the Midlands Fraud Forum (MFF), which costs approximately £50-£60. Reduced membership fee provides access to the MFF Annual Conference in February
There may be nominal costs for students for travel and subsistence where they wish to attend conferences involving Derby academic staff.
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
The MSc Financial and Digital Intelligence has been designed to relate skills and application in professional investigative practice within law enforcement and the private sector. The success of candidates in potentially securing employment or further educational opportunities is embedded in the self-directed nature of the programme.
Our masters-level candidates are encouraged to pursue (where they are not already employed in a related field) institutional access and collaboration for research as well as possible placement and internship opportunities. The integration between research and practical experience is very important for candidates to express and pursue their interests, whilst developing their skills and access to networks which may facilitate career opportunities.
Ongoing careers support
Our
Careers and Employment Service
will provide you with help, guidance and support from day one of your course – and for up to three years after you have completed your studies.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Criminal Investigation MSc
Criminal Justice and Criminology MSc