Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/economics-finance-courses/finance-technology-bsc-hons/

Finance and Technology BSc (Hons) - Economics and Finance - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Economics and Finance
Finance and Technology BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Finance and Technology
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years,  Part-time: Up to 6 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
120
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
N2J9
Start date
September
Location
Derby Campus
Develop your skills in the emerging finance and technology field. From investment portfolios to cryptocurrencies, you’ll explore an exciting range of themes whilst enhancing your employability through our industry connections.
Our BSc (Hons) Finance and Technology degree is designed to help you make robust links between classical financial theoretical frameworks and the practicalities of the real world, and to equip you with the computer-based literacy skills needed for a career in growing tech driven finance service sector.
You will learn how advances in technology have led to financial sector innovations that have been revolutionising the way we live, work, and do business. You will explore the ways in which FinTech is implemented in real-world scenarios, from the way businesses create and deliver products and services, to raising capital, conducting financial transactions and managing investment portfolios.
You will develop skills in applying economic and financial theory perspectives and approaches in order to understand the way financial decisions are made, risk management takes place and how an optimal portfolio is evaluated. You will be equipped to undertake financial economic research and analysis, handle economic and financial information and data by utilising widely used programming languages, such as Python and industry standard software, such as Stata, SPSS, Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio, and Jupyter Notebooks.
You will be introduced to Cryptocurrencies, Blockchain, Big Data and AI and you will build up your real-world financial data analysis in our specialist Financial Lab using industry standard software.
At the forefront of a growing industry
The recent global economic and technological developments such as Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning have led to a growing interest in applied finance, and in the use of the latest technologies to deliver financial services and products. Financial Technology (FinTech) is bringing innovations to the traditional banking and finance subject area. It has highlighted the importance of understanding the real-world economic and financial problems by incorporating cutting edge computational methods.
It is anticipated that FinTech will contribute £13.7bn gross value added to the UK economy, and as this industry grows there will be a need for graduates with specialist financial knowledge who can be at the forefront of this expanding sector.
Specialist Facilities
In our impressive Financial Markets Lab you can harness the same information and technology used by financial professionals all over the world. You’ll have the chance to apply industry-standard software to solve complex finance related problems. You’ll develop the financial and economic knowledge and skills needed for a successful career in the globalised and highly competitive financial sector.
Financial Markets Lab
University of Derby students have access to real live financial data and can experience what it’s like to work on a trading floor in our Financial Markets Lab.
Explore our Financial Markets Lab
Explore our Financial Markets Lab
What you will study
Year one
Introductory Microeconomics
Introductory Quantitative Analysis
Programming
Introduction to Macroeconomic Concepts and Data
Introduction to Finance and FinTech
Finance and Business Performance
Year two
Data Analysis
Financial Markets and Instruments
Corporate Finance
Applied Intermediate Macroeconomics
Dig Data and Artificial Intelligence
Programming for Finance
Optional placement year
Negotiated Work Placement
Year three
FinTech Research Project
Econometrics
Financial Risk Management
Corporate Governance
Portfolio Management
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
120
A Level
BBB
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DDM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
N/A
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Opportunities for study trips
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
The skills you’ll learn will enable you to pursue a career as a financial sector professional or a finance specialist in FinTech. As the course will also develop your business mindset and commercial awareness, you could also enter other fields where financial skills are desirable such as:
Project management
Logistics
Financial Data Analysts.
Investment / Risk management
Financial planning
Financial consultancy
Financial compliance
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
This is a new course so the data displayed via Discover Uni is for students studying in another subject area.
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Economics and Finance BSc (Hons)
Accounting and Finance BA (Hons)
Economics BA (Hons)
Business Accounting and Finance BA (Hons)
International Business Management BSc (Hons)