Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/online/free-courses/flexible-learning-toolkit/

Flexible Learning ToolKit - Free courses - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Online short courses
Free courses
Flexible Learning ToolKit
Book now
Book now
Short course
Flexible Learning ToolKit
Book now
Book now
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Online course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Learning outcomes
Course requirements
Online course details
Price
FREE
Next course date
Open now
Duration
5 units, 5 hours of study to complete all units
CPD hours
5 CPD hours
Delivery
Self-guided online learning
Location
Online
Online course description
The Flexible Learning Toolkit course provides a solution to programme / module design issues that were observed during the global Covid 19 pandemic, such as:
lack of flexible staff contact
poorly structured digital modules
challenges around student engagement and independent learning activities
content overload
Drawing on good practice from the different modes of learning, this course will provide you with:
a flexible module map
a communication plan, and
an example digital orientation
In this course, we explore these problems by answering questions posed by the QAA guide ‘Questions to Inform a Toolkit for Enhancing Quality in a Digital Environment’ (2021).
The course draws upon the experiences of students and module leaders across three modes of study; online learning, work-based learning and campus-based learning that transitioned to digital study due to enforced restrictions resulting from the pandemic.
Between February and April 2021, the volunteers recorded a weekly video log (vlog) style reflection. Their insights are woven into the course units to emphasise key points of interest.
This course has 5 units, each with a ‘read’, ‘watch’ and ‘do’ section. The course is self-paced, without peer or tutor interaction, therefore you are encouraged to take the learning back to your institution to discuss in your programme teams. Each unit concludes with a summary section, which contains our recommendations for enhancing flexible module and programme design.
There is no intention for you to undertake additional reading as part of this course. The evidence-based guide, is built into the activity time. Finally, you will have the results of three activities that may be applied in any mode of learning to directly enhance the student experience.
Collaborative Enhancement Partnership Project
This course is the result of a collaborative enhancement partnership project supported by the QAA. The project is led by the University of Derby in partnership with Derby College, The London College, and Pearson.
Who is this course for?
The course is for higher education practitioners, such as Programme Leaders or Modules Leaders, working in any of the 279 QAA member institutions. Strategic Managers within Higher Education will also benefit from this exploration of digital learning.
Structure, certificates and assessment
An accredited provider of the CPD Standards Office
We are proud to be an accredited provider of the
CPD Standards Office
for our online short courses and free courses, demonstrating that they conform to CPD best practice and are appropriate for inclusion in a formal CPD record.
Course units
The course is made up of 5 units and this online course will require approximately 5 hours of study.
Unit 1 - Pedagogy and technology
The first unit explores the relationship between pedagogies and digital tools and technologies. To begin with, it looks at the use of learning technologies, then how technologies have changed the way we work with no assumption that learning will take place in a physical space. It then explores blends of physical and digital learning to create a holistic learning experience. Finally it looks at how learning analytical data can be used to enhance the learning experience.
Unit 2 – University and work learning communities
The second unit focuses on learning communities. It explores staff and student experiences of scheduled synchronous and flexible asynchronous interactions in the three modes of study; online, blended campus-based and work-based learning. It then looks at how work-based and online students apply their learning in the workplace.
Unit 3 – Personalisation of learning journeys
The research suggests that flexible modules should provide choice and visibility of effective ways to meet the total credit hours, a key ingredient of this is guided independent learning such as reading and assignment preparation.
This unit will focus on independent learning, and consider the blend of media and time, to address the following issues:
Media overload
Adjusting the pace of independent learning
Self-assessment and guided assessment preparation.
Unit 4 - Institutional belonging
This unit focuses on how the communication and presentation of information across all levels of the course delivery and student journey can help to create a sense of belonging. It will look at how to ensure students are informed and have digital access to the wider institutional offer, through effective communications.
Unit 5 - Programme management: Orientating students to digital spaces
The final unit draws the themes covered in the previous units together and looks at how to introduce them to students at the start of their modules. It will cover student orientation in digital spaces.
Learning outcomes
Upon completing the course, you will be able to:
Recommend strategies for enhancing the learning experience using appropriate pedagogies and technologies
Recommend strategies for solving problems in peer-to-peer interactions
Create a flexible module map
Create a module communication plan to help build a digital sense of belonging
Create a digital orientation to prepare students for your flexible module
Course requirements
How to enrol
All of our free courses are delivered through an easy-to-use online learning platform, which you can enrol from directly.
What you will need
The course is free and widely available for anyone to take part in regardless of age, location or education status. You will need to agree to the terms and conditions before you start the course which will be available when you enrol.
However, there are some basic requirements. You will need access to the internet whether it is on your PC, tablet, mobile or other electronic devices, as well as a valid email address to register with our online learning environment in order to take part in the course.
Once registered, please be aware that all study for this course is online and so you will need to be able to engage with this via a personal device, preferably a computer or laptop, for the stated duration of the course.
The learning platform is compatible with screen reader technology to assist those with visual impairments.
Who will teach you
Dr Gary Frazer Fisher
Programme leader
Gary Fisher is Senior Learning Designer. In his current role as Senior Learning Designer, he uses his varied experiences and specialisms to ensure that University of Derby students have the best possible outcomes and enjoy a positive student experience.
View full staff profile
View full staff profile
Contact us
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Course policies
Learner charter
Terms and conditions