Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/focused-specialist-ultrasound-practice-2/

Focused Specialist Ultrasound Practice 2 - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Focused Specialist Ultrasound Practice 2
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Focused Specialist Ultrasound Practice 2
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Module details
Module code
7RD510
Module level
Level 7
Next course date
October
Location
Distance learning
Module description
About this module
Building on your existing focused ultrasound experience, the module will enable you to extend your specialist skills to provide an enhanced ultrasound service in your own clinical area.
Working closely with a service based mentor and an academic supervisor, you will be able to review your own learning needs and build a portfolio of evidence that demonstrates a clear rationale for the expansion of ultrasound provision within your own work place and assesses the impact that this may have on clinical practice for the benefit of service users, practitioners and clinical unit.
An individual learning strategy will be agreed with each student covering 200 total learning hours. This will include a mixture of self-directed learning, tutorial support and supervised scanning practice. In addition, you will be encouraged to attend relevant themed study days offered at the University, multi-disciplinary team meetings and relevant in-house training events. The module may be completed entirely by distance learning.
To enrol to this module, you must be studying or have completed the Principles of Medical Ultrasound and FSUP 1 modules (or an equivalent qualification).
You will be expected to have access to supervised training sessions throughout the duration of the module. The total number of scanning hours will vary according to your specific learning needs. You must have access to a Clinical Mentor who has the necessary skill and experience to assess final competence in your specialist area. Normally, your Mentor will be based within your own Trust.
Entry is subject to discussion with module leader and completion of a practice based agreement.
Who is this course for
All Health Professionals
Learning outcomes
On successful completion of the module you will be able to:
Critically review the use of ultrasound within their specialty.
Present a clear rationale for the expansion of ultrasound provision within their own work place and assess the impact that this may have on clinical practice for the benefit of service users, practitioners and clinical unit.
Demonstrate competence in the key skills of generating and interpreting ultrasound images in an extended area of ultrasound practice.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
E:
lbr@derby.ac.uk
T:
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.