Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/focused-specialist-ultrasound-practice-1/

Focused Specialist Ultrasound Practice 1 - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Focused Specialist Ultrasound Practice 1
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Focused Specialist Ultrasound Practice 1
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
Learning outcomes
Course details
Course code
7RD509
Course level
Level 7
Course credits
20 credits
Next course date
October
Location
Distance learning
Course description
The module may be of particular interest to specialist trainees / practitioners in areas such as emergency medicine, critical care, anaesthetics, rheumatology, urology, vascular surgery, endocrinology, general practice, sports medicine, physical therapy, radiography, fertility services, podiatry etc.
About this module
This module has been designed to enable trainees to undertake initial training in a single focused ultrasound application. Working closely with a service based mentor and an academic supervisor, you will be able to define your own learning needs and build a portfolio of evidence that demonstrates the scope of your ultrasound experience and competence.
You will undertake 200 total learning hours - an individual learning strategy will be agreed with each student. This will include a mixture of self-directed learning, tutorial support and supervised scanning practice. In addition, you will be encouraged to attend relevant themed study days offered at the University, multi-disciplinary team meetings and relevant in-house training events. The module may be completed entirely by distance learning.
To enrol to this module, you must be studying or have completed the Principles of Medical Ultrasound module (or an equivalent qualification).
You will be expected to have access to supervised training sessions throughout the duration of the module. The total number of scanning hours will vary according to your specific learning needs. You must have access to a Clinical Mentor who has the necessary skill and experience to assess final competence in your specialist area. Normally, your Mentor will be based within your own Trust.
Entry is subject to discussion with module leader and completion of a practice based agreement.
Who is this course for
All Health Professionals
Learning outcomes
On successful completion of the module you will be able to:
Analyse the needs of service users, relatives and attendees, reflecting critically on the effectiveness of their communication skills in the context of providing a focused ultrasound service.
Demonstrate the complex skills necessary to plan and perform focused ultrasound examinations safely, competently and professionally, according to the current evidence base.
Interpret, critically evaluate and, where required, report upon the ultrasound findings. Where necessary, arrange, advise or undertake further investigations appropriate to local policies and contribute effectively to the multi disciplinary healthcare team
Critically reflect on the development of a focused specialist ultrasound service within their clinical setting, the implications for patient management and their own role extension.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
E:
lbr@derby.ac.uk
T:
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.