Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/psychology-courses/forensic-psychology-msc/

Forensic Psychology MSc - Psychology - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Psychology
Forensic Psychology MSc
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Forensic Psychology
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
This programme is accredited with the British Psychological Society (BPS), thereby accounting for Stage 1 of the qualification for those who already hold Graduate Basis of Chartership (GBC) with the BPS
Choose a programme which offers a compelling blend of academic studies, research and practical experience
Learn from a teaching team made up of forensic practitioners and academics with considerable experience of working with offenders and victims in a range of forensic contexts
Benefit from a supportive and dynamic research environment where you will have the chance to pursue your own professional interests
Gain vital practical insights, including potential opportunities for real life experience within a related field
Broaden your professional options: this qualification is valuable for careers in a range of settings including prisons, secure units, hospitals, mental health services, police, probation services, courts, community organisations, charities and social enterprises
Build an excellent platform if you want to progress to PhD research
This postgraduate degree will equip psychology graduates with the academic knowledge and skills they need to conduct practical work and research within a forensic context.
During the course, you will be encouraged to undertake a minimum of 30 hours volunteering to gain real life experience in a related field, as well as to obtain practical insights into forensic psychology.
The culmination of the MSc Forensic Psychology programme is the research project which will enable you to tailor your learning to reflect your own specific area of professional interest and your career aspirations. To support your work on your research project, you will develop skills in collecting and analysing data relevant to forensic psychology. You will also use a range of techniques and research methods applicable to advanced scholarship in the discipline.
On successful completion of the course, you may continue your training to become a Forensic Psychologist, or pursue a career in sectors such as the prison and probation services, crime analysis or education.
If you prefer, you can also study the
MSc Forensic Psychology
via our online provision.
Accreditation
The MSc Forensic Psychology programme is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS), thereby accounting for Stage 1 of the qualification for those who already hold Graduate Basis of Chartership (GBC) with the BPS.
Qualifying as a Forensic Psychologist
Gaining a BPS accredited MSc is the first step (stage 1) towards becoming a Forensic Psychologist. The next step (stage 2) is to complete approved applied training; one route is the Qualification in Forensic Psychology provided by the BPS. The Qualification in Forensic Psychology is the independent route to training as a forensic psychologist. To find out more about the stage 2 qualification, please visit the British Psychological Society website.
100
%
Overall Satisfaction - MSc Forensic Psychology
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
How to become a chartered professional psychologist: BPS accreditation at Derby
Find out more about the importance of studying a BPS accredited Psychology degree at the University of Derby.
View 'How to become a chartered professional psychologist: BPS accreditation at Derby' video transcript
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You’ll study modules such as:
Modules
Forensic Risk Assessment and Case Formulation -
The first outcome of this module is that you will be equipped with the knowledge and skills to progress to working within a range of settings and contexts relevant to forensic and criminal psychology, including prisons; secure units; hospitals; mental health; police; courts (including criminal, family and civil); community settings; charities and social enterprises. You should have an understanding of organisational culture and systems, and the ways in which these impact on the practice of forensic and criminal psychologists and other professionals. The second outcome of the module is that you should be able to demonstrate a critical understanding of different approaches to assessment and formulation in relation to individuals, groups and/or organisations. You should also demonstrate a familiarity with the processes and tools of assessment in line with the particular focus offered by your programme
The Psychology of Offending Behaviour and the Victim Experience -
This module recaps and builds upon the psychological perspectives and theories relevant to understanding crime, criminal behaviour, and the victims / survivors of crime.  You will be introduced to a variety of client groups within forensic psychology practice, for example: children and young people, male and female offenders, and people who commit violent and/or sexual offences. A variety of client groups in the context of victimology will also be explored, including victims of domestic abuse, sexual assault, child sexual exploitation, and violent crimes for example. You will also learn about the professionals, groups and organisations involved with these client groups.
Advanced Psychological Research Methods in Context
- The aim of this module is to provide you with advanced knowledge and skills related to quantitative and qualitative research methods within the context of applied psychology
Forensic Settings and Rehabilitative Interventions -
At the end of this module, you should be able to demonstrate a critical understanding of the range of interventions available for offenders, patients and at-risk individuals, victims/survivors, professionals, groups and organisations. You should understand different approaches and be able to identify the strengths and weaknesses of those approaches to inform the selection of appropriate interventions. You should also be able to evaluate the effectiveness of these interventions
The Criminal Justice Context of Forensic Psychology -
This module enables you to demonstrate a critical understanding of psychological theories and evidence relevant to processes in the justice system, including the legal framework of the civil and criminal justice systems; processes of investigation; the legal process; the process of detention; working with litigants, appellants, and individuals seeking arbitration and mediation; and interdisciplinary and multi-agency working. In addition, the tutorials that accompany this part of the course facilitate your emotional and cognitive development as you progress towards your professional career
Clinical and Professional Skills for Practitioner Psychologists
- The aim of this module is to support your personal and professional development, and enable you to reflect on, and plan for, your own development as a trainee psychologist and to support you accessing relevant opportunities during and on completion of the programme
Empirical Research Project
- It is intrinsic to the award of MSc that you present evidence of your capacity to conduct a substantial piece of independent empirical research that builds clearly upon your prior learning and which draws upon appropriate methodologies. The aim of this module is to allow you to identify a research issue, formulate pertinent research questions and explore these questions through the application of contemporary psychological methodologies and appropriate data analysis and dissemination methods
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
The MSc Forensic Psychology is delivered primarily through lectures, interactive workshops and discussions, small group teaching, and one-on-one supervision.
You will also benefit from a number of outings and visits, as well as guest lectures by prominent figures in the world of forensic psychology.
How you will be assessed
Assessments will be diverse in format and may include:
essays
group and individual presentations
research project report(s)
a reflective practice portfolio.
Who you'll meet
You will be taught by an established academic team who are active in research and specialists in their field including:
Dr Dean Fido
Dr Rachael Wheatley
Dr Henry Lennon
Dr Zacharia Nahoul
i
Robyn Mooney
Who will teach you
Dr Dean Fido
Programme Leader
Dr Dean Fido
Dr Dean Fido joined the University of Derby Online Learning in January 2018 as a Lecturer in Psychology before moving on campus to lead the MSc Forensic Psychology. After completing his PhD at Nottingham Trent University, he completed ...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You will need a British Psychological Society (BPS) recognised undergraduate degree (minimum 2.1) in Psychology (or equivalent) that confers Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC) of the Society
Those whose qualification does not confer GBC may also apply and an undergraduate degree (minimum 2.1) is similarly required. However, to be eligible for Chartered Membership (CPsychol) of the Society and full membership of the Division of Forensic Psychology (DFP), the GBC is a requirement
Applicants whose undergraduate degree is a 2.2 should contact the
Programme Leader
You are required to provide one academic and one vocational reference
If English is not your first language you must have achieved an IELTS score of at least level 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each skill area)
Final selection may be subject to an interview with members of the course team
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
Students generally choose the MSc Forensic Psychology because they wish to pursue a career in Forensic Psychology.
Forensic Psychologists work across many agencies within the criminal justice system, primarily in prison and probation services, secure hospitals, the police, and the courts in roles such as:
Offender Manager
Probation Officer
Psychological Assistant
Offender Behaviour Programme Facilitator
Trainee Forensic Psychologist (stage 2 Qualification in Forensic Psychology)
Behavioural Support Mentor in a school
Mental Health Recovery Worker
Forensic Support Worker
Assistant Forensic Psychologist
Therapy Coordinator
Mental Health Adviser at a university
Academic or career in research
PhD study
Please note that it is possible to obtain GBC status after you have completed the MSc by undertaking a BPS-accredited conversion course such as our online
Postgraduate Diploma Psychology
.
Studying this course has equipped me with a lot of knowledge that employers look for. I have been offered a role as a Mental Health Key Worker in a mental health rehabilitation centre, and this is thanks to all the knowledge I gained on this course.
Andrea Nica
MSc Forensic Psychology student
How graduate Kanish is rehabilitating offenders in prison role
Kanish Jones has gone straight from her MSc Forensic Psychology degree to working at the largest prison in Europe for sexual offenders. Kanish secured the role as Interventions Facilitator at HMP Whatton in Nottinghamshire while still studying.
Read Kanish's story
Read Kanish's story
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Other courses you might like
Integrative Counselling and Psychotherapy (incorporating PG Cert/PG Dip) (BACP Accredited) MSc
Psychology MRes
Behaviour Change (incorporating PG Dip/PG Cert) MSc
Health Psychology MSc
Forensic Psychology MSc