Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/psychology-courses/forensic-psychology-bsc-hons/

Forensic Psychology BSc (Hons) - Psychology - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Psychology
Forensic Psychology BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Forensic Psychology
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
120
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
ML96
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
The best bits
This degree is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS) as conferring eligibility for Graduate Membership of the Society, which is the first step in becoming a Chartered Psychologist
You will focus on real-life criminal justice problems and explore potential solutions
We cover the latest thinking on subjects as varied as hate crime, domestic abuse and murder investigations
Fieldtrips (subject to availability and travel restrictions), to places such as, courts and prisons will give you vital insights while criminal justice professionals will share their experiences with you
Our teaching team includes leading experts who are conducting influential research in the field
We support you to conduct your own original research and contribute to the growing knowledge base about forensic psychology
Opportunity to achieve an additional professional qualification in youth justice
Top
20
for student satisfaction
Psychology subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
Top
25
for Psychology
Guardian University Guide 2024
100
%
of Students agreed that teaching staff are good at explaining things
BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology
95
%
Overall Academic Support
BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology - National Student Survey 2024
95
%
Overall Learning Resources
BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology - National Student Survey 2024
About the course
How does criminal behaviour develop? Are psychopaths born or made? Are eyewitnesses accurate? How should we rehabilitate offenders? These are just some of the challenging questions you will explore on our stimulating degree.
We are one of the few universities in the UK to offer an integrated degree dedicated to the intersection between psychology and the criminal justice system. Forensic psychology is increasingly used to inform practice within the justice system and there is a growing demand for professionals who can draw on knowledge of the subject in a wide range of roles and contexts.
Our BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology programme enables you to apply psychological theories, methods and research to some of the critical challenges facing the criminal justice system today.
You will cover all the main areas of psychology and gain a thorough understanding of complex issues such as criminal behaviour and the personal consequences of crime. There is the chance to focus on specialist areas ranging from cybercrime to domestic abuse, hate crime to psychopathy, offenders with mental or intellectual disabilities to substance misuse. Among the latest additions to the portfolio are optional modules in subjects such as addictive behaviours and schizophrenia.
Throughout, we emphasise the importance of evidence-based practice so you will research real-life criminal justice problems and seek pragmatic solutions to address those problems.
Professional recognition
Our BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology course is accredited by the
British Psychological Society (BPS)
. As long as you achieve at least a second class honours qualification and obtain at least 40% in your Independent Study in Psychology - you will be eligible for the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC) of the society. This is the first step to becoming a chartered psychologist.
The next step you will need to complete is a Stage One accredited postgraduate qualification, which we offer in our
MSc Forensic Psychology
. Following this, you must complete Stage Two towards becoming a Forensic Psychologist, which is the independent training route. Trainees will complete eight pieces of work, taking a minimum of two years, in the following areas: conducting psychological applications and interventions, research, communicating psychological knowledge and advice to other professionals and training other professionals in psychological skills and knowledge. All of these activities are supervised by a registered Forensic Psychologist. Successful submission and HCPC registration leads to qualification as a Forensic Psychologist.
How to become a chartered professional psychologist: BPS accreditation at Derby
Find out more about the importance of studying a BPS accredited Psychology degree at the University of Derby.
View 'How to become a chartered professional psychologist: BPS accreditation at Derby' video transcript
Hands-on learning
We have strong links with a wide range of criminal and community justice agencies including the police, probation services, prisons, youth justice, courts and victim support organisations.  These enrich your learning and open the door for you to undertake independent research projects.
During your second year, as part of the Qualitative Methods module, you will complete a 30-hour volunteering placement. We also encourage you to take up additional volunteering opportunities throughout the degree to add substance to your CV and to ensure you are ‘workplace-ready’ on graduating. Placement hours are subject to change.
The BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology also features field trips to places such as courts and prisons (subject to availability of the facilities).
Extra qualifications
If you have a particular interest in youth justice, this course gives you the chance to achieve an additional professional qualification – the Youth Justice in Effective Practice Certificate (YJEPC) – alongside your degree studies.
The YJEPC is the most widely held qualification in youth justice and brings together current theory, practice and evidence. It will not only boost your employability in the eyes of potential employers but also help you to make more effective judgements in your future career.
The opportunity to gain the YJEPC is available if you take two specific modules – Working with Young Offenders and Youth Justice.
Expert teaching
Supporting you all the way is our team of enthusiastic and experienced lecturers who are experts in their fields, including chartered psychologists. Several are still actively engaged with practice, which helps you keep up to date with the latest developments.
Your learning will be underpinned by the internationally renowned research activities of our staff who are helping to shape understanding and practice across the criminal justice sector. Their expertise spans thought-provoking topics such as psychopathy, dark triad, sex offenders, domestic violence and personality disorders. It all means your modules will feature latest thinking and contemporary materials.
Guest speakers include professionals who have pursued a career in the criminal justice sector and who will share their own experiences of forensic psychology.
Equipment and resources
As a Forensic Psychology student, you’ll be based at the Derby Campus. Offering the perfect environment for innovative and engaging teaching, it includes well-resourced lecture theatres, seminar rooms, computer laboratories and social learning spaces.
You’ll be able to gain practical experience of investigative processes using our facilities which include a mock courtroom and replica police custody suite.
Depending on the modules you select in level 6 you could be working alongside students taking courses in subjects such as law, criminology and policing, so there are many opportunities to share knowledge, expertise and experience.
Real-world research
We will prepare you to become a competent researcher yourself, equipped with the skills to analyse data and policies critically and to contribute to original forensic psychology knowledge.
As part of the course, you will pursue independent research into themes matching your career ambitions and intellectual interests. You may also have the chance to get involved in staff research projects where feasible and to present your work at relevant conferences.
Forensic Psychology - your questions answered!
In the below video, Forensic Psychology Lecturer, Dr Dean Fido, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Forensic Psychology at the University of Derby.
View Forensic Psychology - your questions answered!  video transcript
How Daniel is attaining ALL of his goals
Daniel Lodge is realising his potential. He is a final-year BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology student with a passion for criminal justice proceedings and academia. And he can see his dream career is within reach.
Read Daniel's story
Read Daniel's story
Kristina's new skills lead to funded research opportunity
Kristina Knoskova has developed key research skills on her course - and on her work placement. She is now using these skills to investigate gender equality in the police force as part of our funded Undergraduate Research Scholarship Scheme (URSS).
Read Kristina's story
Read Kristina's story
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You will learn through a compelling combination of:
lectures
seminars
tutorials
role plays
workshops
fieldtrips
We offer a high level of support to students, including a personal tutor system to help steer your academic and professional development throughout your studies.
How you are assessed
You are assessed via a wide range of methods including:
essays
case studies
presentations including research-style posters
debates
group projects
Who you'll meet
Our teaching team for the BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology programme is made up of engaging, passionate and inspiring subject experts. They include:
Dr Henriette Bergstrøm
Dr Dean Fido
Dr Tom Page
Dr Henry Lennon
Dr Rachael Wheately
Juliet Marvin
Dr Katia Vione
Dr Aleksandra Monteiro
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Henry Lennon
Programme Leader
Dr Henry Lennon
Dr Henry Lennon is a Senior Lecturer in Forensic Psychology. He is also Programme Leader of BSc Forensic Psychology, shaping and maintaining high academic standards by working with colleagues and external bodies. He contributes to teac...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
120
A Level
BBB
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DDM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
DBS check if required for research purposes.
International trips if appropriate. Local trips to visit criminal justice organisations (e.g. courts, police stations)
Youth Justice Effective Practitioner Certificate (YJEPC)
Access to online learning materials
Access to essential software (SPSS and NVivo).
Optional costs not included in your fees
You may wish to purchase optional textbooks or e-books to support your studies - costs for these are dependent on your choice
Printing costs of course materials if hard copy desired - approximate cost is 5p per sheet
Student membership of the British Psychological Society - approximate cost is £30
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
The skills and tools you gain on the BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology are valuable for a wide range of careers, including the probation service, the prison service, youth justice and youth offending teams.
You could also consider roles in research and policy-making within the criminal justice system or you could pursue a career in teaching and academia.
Where can a degree in Forensic Psychology take you?
Further study
You can go on to postgraduate study at Derby, with MSc qualifications in subjects such as
Forensic
Psychology,
Criminal Investigation
, and
Criminal Justice and Criminology
.
These expand your knowledge into specialist areas and accelerate your progress to more senior and leadership roles. Some of our students also use their experiences on the degree as a springboard into academic research.
As a graduate of the University of Derby, you may benefit from an alumni discount on your postgraduate course fees if you continue to study with us.
Find out more about our alumni discount.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Counselling and Psychotherapy Principles and Practices BSc (Hons) (on campus)
Psychology BSc (Hons) (on campus)
Forensic Psychology BSc (Hons) (online)
Psychology BSc (Hons) (online)
Forensic Psychology with Foundation Year BSc (Hons) (on campus)