Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/psychology-courses/forensic-psychology-practice-pg-dip/

Forensic Psychology Practice Postgraduate Diploma - Psychology - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Psychology
Forensic Psychology Practice Postgraduate Diploma
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Forensic Psychology Practice
PG Dip
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Online course details
Study options
Full-time: 2 years
UK fee
£6,300
(2024/25)
‡
International fee
£6,300
(2024/25)
‡
Start dates
September, January, May
Location
Online
The highlights
If you hold a BPS-accredited MSc in Forensic Psychology (Stage 1), this online programme, coupled with 360 days of practice experience within a forensic setting, confers eligibility to apply for Health Care Profession Council (HCPC) registration, to become a registered forensic psychologist
All teaching will take place online around your work and other commitments. It’s a great option for those who can’t get onto campus, including working professionals and international students*
You will still be able to interact and share insights with tutors and other students, through digital cafés and forums
You will also receive regular support throughout the programme, including through your Clinical Supervisor and your Academic Supervisor, both of whom will be HCPC Registered Forensic Psychologists
Our highly regarded teaching team includes practising forensic psychologists, who will bring their industry experience and research-informed practice to the programme
*If you are an international student, you will need to identify suitable placements, as well as an approved clinical supervisor. Overseas training is unlikely to qualify the trainee to practice in the UK, but may be acceptable in their home country. Please confirm this before starting the programme — it is your responsibility.
The final stage of your forensic psychology training
This new, Postgraduate Diploma in Forensic Psychology Practice is unique in that it combines online teaching with practice-based learning and independent study. Once you successfully complete the programme, you will be eligible to apply for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and, if this is granted, you will be able to practice as a forensic psychologist in the UK.
We expect that most students will already be working in a forensic setting where they can carry out the necessary 360 days of practice, but if you are not, there may be placements available provided by University of Derby, though these are not guaranteed.
It will train you to be both the ‘scientist’ and the ‘practitioner’. You will develop an advanced understanding and independent judgement of psychological perspectives, theories, policy, and practices relevant to criminal behaviour.
It will also help you to become critically aware of issues at the forefront of forensic psychology, and encourage your enquiring, analytical and creative skills.
Supervision
We will provide you with an
Academic Supervisor
who will help you meet the academic requirements of the programme and support you to apply the academic learning to your practice setting. They will be a HCPC registered Forensic Psychologist.
You will also need a
Clinical Supervisor
, who will be based within your workplace or placement setting. They will be a HCPC registered Forensic Psychologist, with at least two years’ experience post-qualification. They will provide you with suitable practice opportunities and help you make sense of your learning experiences.
Expert tutors and strong industry links
You will be taught by a team of enthusiastic and experienced lecturers who are experts in their fields, including chartered psychologists and registered forensic psychologists.
Our staff are involved in internationally renowned research that is helping to shape understanding and practice across the criminal justice sector. They have expertise in topics such as psychopathy, sex offending, domestic violence, stalking, and personality disorders. As a result, your teaching sessions will often feature the latest thinking and contemporary materials.
We also have strong links with a wide range of criminal and community justice agencies including the police, probation services, prisons, youth justice, courts, and victim support organisations. This means you might hear guest lectures from some of these organisations, or you might be able to undertake research projects with them.
What you will study
You will need to complete six core 10-credit modules and the two 30-credit modules so, on the full-time programme, you will study three 10-credit modules and one-30 credit module in each year, applying that to practice.
You can
view the study plan for this online course
.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
Whilst this is a professional programme, it is delivered entirely online so you can study this course virtually, from any location and have the flexibility to fit your studies around your work. You will engage in all course materials and live sessions through our virtual learning environment, which is easy to use and offers a highly interactive study experience.
You will learn through:
Weekly, Live sessions, delivered by a module tutor, to allow for revision and consolidation purposes (live sessions are recorded and available to watch later)
Pre-recorded videos delivered by members of the academic team, which are available to watch at any time
Discussion boards, which enable you to discuss a particular topic with fellow students and tutors
Guest lectures delivered by industry specialists or alumni, which will provide you with current insights (subject to change and availability)
Your own online study and research, which you can choose to do at times that suit you
Hands-on experience gained on your placement
Professional Practice
You will be required to undertake and evidence a total of 360 days of supervised practice-based work experience to develop competencies in four key areas:
Research: 90 days
Conducting psychological applications and interventions: 90 days
Communicating psychological knowledge and advice to other professionals: 90 days
Training other professionals in psychological skills and knowledge: 90 days
Through your professional practice, you will build a portfolio of evidence and reflections which will count toward your final assessment.
Support for your learning
You will get plenty of support, so if you are new to online learning or haven’t studied for a while, you don’t need to worry. Alongside our expert academics and your Academic Supervisor, there will also be a team of online learning advisors who will help you with any non-academic queries.
Pace of study
The academic year is made up of three, ten-week terms, known as trimesters. For the full-time course, you will need to study the equivalent of 20 credits each trimester.
Assessments
This course is assessed through coursework. There will be assessments for each module that count towards your final qualification (‘summative assessments’), which may include things like:
essays
case studies
presentations including research-style posters
research reports
a reflective portfolio
a learning and development log
At the end of the programme, each assessment with contribute to your final practice portfolio.
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Who will teach you
Dr Rachael Wheatley
Programme Leader
Dr Rachael Wheatley
Rachael is the Professional Psychological Practice Programme Manager (PG Dip in Forensic Psychology Practice) and module leader on the MSc in Forensic Psychology. Rachael has a Doctor of Psychology degree and is an experienced Forensic...
View full staff profile
→
Get a taste of the course content
Our Forensic Psychology Practice Postgraduate Diploma course taster will give you an idea of how online learning works. It includes a selection of content from a course module so you can see what some of our learning material looks like.
You will need to complete a short form to access the course taster.
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Entry requirements
All eligible applicants will be subject to
an interview
prior to admissions onto the course.
Applicants must hold a British Psychological Society (BPS) recognised postgraduate degree in Forensic Psychology (or similar) that confers Stage 1 eligibility (e.g., an MSc Forensic Psychology)
Applicants need to evidence they have secured a suitable practice placement (
Please note:
Placement providers may require different levels of prior work experience in forensic settings):
You may already be working in a forensic setting and will be able to have their practice/placement in the workplace
Or you may arrange a ‘time limited’ placement with an eligible supervisor yourself
Alternatively, you may apply to the university for one of our few ‘time-limited’ placements. It is important to note that the university placements are extremely limited in availability and allocation will be subject to an interview process. Securing a university placement cannot be guaranteed.
As this programme confers eligibility to apply to the
Health and Care Professions Council
(HCPC) for registration as a practitioner psychologist, the good health and good standing of students need to be assured. All applicants will be required to complete an annual declaration of this.
If you have studied at another institution you may be able to translate some of this prior learning into credits (a maximum of two taught modules or 40 credits) towards this course. This is called Recognition of Prior Learning or RPL. This could potentially reduce the course length to a minimum of 12 months.
Learn more about RPL
.
Liability Insurance
Applicants will be required to have appropriate liability insurance to cover you during your practice placement. This may be provided through your employer where you are undertaking your placement within your place of work.
If you secure a placement independently, or through the University, you will be required to take out your own professional liability insurance. Costs are approximately £100 per year.
You will be required to supply evidence of your liability insurance cover. It is your responsibility to renew your liability insurance as appropriate.
Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS)
A Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check is required when going on placement during this course. Applicants are required to obtain/hold a valid DBS themselves in advance of applying for this course.
English language qualifications
If English is not your first language, or you have not successfully completed your highest level of qualification in English, you will need an English language qualification. For this course you will need at least one of the following:
IELTS 6.5 (with a minimum of 5.5 in each)
TOEFL: 550 (paper based), 213 (computer based) or 80 (internet based)
Pearson Test of Academic English: 51
Cambridge Advanced Certificate: Pass
London Tests of English: we accept level 5 for postgraduate courses
International GCE O Level English Language: Grade C
International GCSE English/English as a Second Language: Grade C
Find out more about our English language requirements
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
UK/EU fee:
£6,300
International fee:
£6,300
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
UK/EU fee:
£6,480
International fee:
£6,480
About your fees
This figure would be the total cost of this course based on the fee in the current academic year. However, please note that fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase if your course lasts longer than one year.
If you are required to undertake any associate study or additional study as a condition of your offer for the programme, please be aware that the cost for this may be in addition to the programme cost stated above.
Breakdown of fees for academic year 24/25
Cost per 10 credit module
Cost per 30 credit module
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£525
£1,575
8 (six 10-credit modules and two 30-credit modules)
£6,300
Breakdown of fees for academic year 25/26
Cost per 10 credit module
Cost per 30 credit module
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£540
£1,620
8 (six 10-credit modules and two 30-credit modules)
£6,480
Flexible payment plans available
Choose from
two payment plan options
:
Pay monthly and only for the modules you are studying
Pay your full course fees upfront and avoid annual increases
How to apply
Please note that this course has earlier application deadlines.
To apply for this course, please note the below application deadlines:
Intake
Application deadline
September 2024
19 July
January 2025
8 November
Entry to this course is assessed via a gathered field approach; we review all applications for each intake once the application deadline has passed.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Application deadlines
All of our online courses have set start dates throughout the year. We require time to review your application and get back to you with a response before your course starts. Take a look at
information regarding applying for an online course
to see full details of deadlines and term dates.
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*, including evidence of your BPS accredited Stage 1 MSc in Forensic Psychology qualification
Current CV
An academic and an employer reference explaining your suitability for the course, each provided on signed letter headed paper
Evidence of appropriate public liability insurance
A completed
Supplementary Information Form
In your application form, please explain if you have your own placement or whether you are applying for one our 'time-limited' placements.
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Careers
Completing this Postgraduate Diploma in Forensic Psychology Practice will enable you to apply for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and, if granted, you will be able to practice as a forensic psychologist in the UK.
The largest employers of registered forensic psychologists in the UK are Her Majesty’s Prison and Probation Service (HMPPS) and the National Health Service (NHS). However, forensic psychologists can also work in rehabilitation units, private secure hospitals, social services, the police, local and central government, and academia.
Alternatively, you could choose to use your qualification to pursue an academic or research career, for example by working as a research assistant or associate, or by
taking your studies to the next level with a PhD
.
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
Forensic Psychology BSc (Hons)
Health Psychology MSc
Forensic Psychology MSc
Psychology MSc