Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/forensic-science-courses/forensic-science-bsc-hons/

Forensic Science BSc (Hons)  - Forensic Science - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Forensic Science
Forensic Science BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Accredited by The Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences
Forensic Science
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years,  Part-time: Up to 6 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
F411
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
Become a highly skilled and confident forensic scientist, fully prepared to investigate crime scenes, analyse evidence and present findings in court.
You'll have the chance to hone your skills in our range of forensic facilities, including our Forensic Training Facility, specialist forensic laboratories, specialist imaging suite, insectary, forensic anthropology suite, photography suite, vehicles, clandestine burial site, courtroom, and ballistics laboratory
Study a programme which sets high professional standards: this course is accredited by
The Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences
Work alongside forensic scientists, fingerprint experts, police officers, lawyers and judges to gain real insights into all aspects of the profession
Gain practical experience through placements and internships. Benefit from our partnership with East Midlands Scientific Operations Unit (EMSOU) by undertaking an optional placement year
Choose optional modules in chemistry and become eligible for Associate Membership of the Royal Society of Chemistry
The content of this course is aligned to the priorities of global initiatives, such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals where ‘Peace and Justice’ is highlighted as a priority
Top
15
for Forensic Science
Complete University Guide 2025
Top
15
for graduate prospects
Forensic Science subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
Top
10
for career prospects
Forensic Science subject area, The Guardian University Guide 2025
93
%
of students agree staff are good at explaining things
BSc (Hons) Forensic Science - National Student Survey 2024
Forensic Science at Derby
Separate the facts from the fiction on this dynamic course. We will fuel your passion for a forensic science career in a way that TV shows like CSI cannot match.
The world is rapidly changing, with ever more sophisticated methods required to solve crimes. Harnessing our specialist facilities, you’ll be guided through the full range of forensic practices and processes – from crime scene analysis to presenting evidence in court. You’ll investigate mock crime scenes including break-ins, assaults, road accidents, and drug and computer crime. You’ll present your findings in our newly refurbished courtroom and will be cross-examined by barristers just as you would be in the world of work. This will help you prepare for the diverse scenarios that you are likely to encounter throughout your career.
Using the latest biological and analytical equipment, you’ll have the opportunity to develop high-level skills in areas such as fingerprint, drug, DNA, bodily fluids and blood pattern analysis. You can also explore how entomology, anthropology and taphonomic processes can assist forensic investigations.
You'll work alongside forensic scientists, fingerprint experts, renowned researchers, police officers, lawyers and judges for current and fresh perspectives on the role of the forensic scientist.
Expert teaching
Our staff are supportive, approachable and passionate about their subjects. In addition to their academic expertise, they have years of commercial forensic experience between them. You’ll be taught by active researchers conducting important studies into fields such as entomology, forensic photography, anthropology, taphonomy, drug analysis, fingerprint detection and enhancement techniques, blood pattern analysis and fire investigations. Find out more about our teaching team below:
Dr Ana Flavia Belchoir de Andrade
: Ana is a Biologist, with a Master's degree and PhD in Cellular and Molecular Biology and a former Forensic Expert. She has previous experience in the Federal District Civil Police in Brazil as a Manager in the Forensic Drug Laboratory and a Forensic Expert in both crime scene investigation and laboratory analysis. She has developed research in forensic biology, analytical and forensic chemistry and crime scene investigation for more than ten years.
Dr Sebastien Moret
: Sebastien’s area of research is finger mark detection and he focuses on the use of silicon oxide nanoparticles to detect finger marks, as well as other types of nanoparticles. He also endeavours to further our fundamental understanding of latent finger mark detection techniques. He also has a broad interest in anything related to forensic science and is currently investigating the use of drones in crime scene investigation, as well as various imaging techniques to reconstruct crime scenes in 3D.
Dr Samantha Drake
: Samantha teaches a broad range of chemistry topics, particularly those relating to the analysis of samples of forensic interest. She has a number of research interests relating to the application of analytical chemistry to real world challenges. These include the chiral analysis of drugs of abuse to provide an enhanced chemical profile for determining their source; and the analysis of volatile organic compounds produced during post-mortem decay.
Dr Louise Robinson
: Louise key teaching area is Molecular Biology with a specialism in Wildlife Forensics. Her current research lies within the areas of gamification, genetic methods of species identification and behavioural studies of wandering larvae relating the estimation of post-mortem interval. Louise collaborates with local authorities and national agencies in order to identify key issues faced by Rural and Wildlife Crime Officers and how they may be overcome.
Dr Kate Barnes
: Kate is a Senior Lecturer in Forensic Biology and teach on the Forensic Science, Biology and Zoology undergraduate programmes. Her research interests are within the field of Forensic Ecology and exploring insect-microbe interactions in the corpse environment and assessing the effect of environmental conditions on blow fly behaviour.
Dr Kori Filipek
: Kori has numerous research interests including human identification and recovery, forensic and archaeological multi-isotope analyses of human tissues, trace element and analyses of human tissues.
Visiting speakers will also share their experiences with you and help you learn more about latest developments in forensics. There are opportunities to hear from other criminal justice professionals too, such as police officers, lawyers and judges.
Specialist facilities
Our purpose-built Forensic Training Facility includes several domestic and commercial crime scenes, including a bedroom, lounge, garage, office, and a commercial area such, as a pharmacy or pub. It also features a blood pattern analysis room used for both teaching and research. The house is fitted with state-of-the-art digital surveillance including panoramic CCTV and equipment for two-way audio recording, and live feedback during your investigations.
Other facilities include an osteology lab for skeletal study, a wet forensic lab, a darkroom for specialised light searching, an entomology lab for insect investigation, a Clandestine Burial site, a ballistics laboratory, replica courtroom for presenting evidence, two crime scene cars, and forensic imaging facilities.
This is an applied science course based on subjects such as organic chemistry and molecular biology, so it teaches you to be highly analytical. We boast dedicated forensic, biological and chemical laboratories featuring modern instrumentation where you can put your theoretical knowledge into practice. You will also have access to our well-equipped imaging suite and insectary.
New Bioscience Superlab
The University of Derby has been awarded £5.8 million from the Office for Students (OfS) to develop a new technology enhanced Bioscience Superlab and Research Lab with an opening date in 2025.
Find out more about the Superlab and Research Lab
Find out more about the Superlab and Research Lab
Accredited course
This course is accredited by the Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences, so you can be sure that the quality of our teaching, and the content of our course is of the highest standard. Depending on the optional modules you choose, you could also be eligible for Associate Membership of the Royal Society of Chemistry (AMRSC).
Forensic Training Facility
This custom built facility offers seven replica domestic and commercial crime scenes, a blood spatter room and fully panoramic CCTV and audio for live feedback.
Take a virtual tour
Take a virtual tour
Strong employer links
We work in close partnership with Derbyshire Constabulary and the East Midlands Scientific Operations Unit (EMSOU). These collaborations open up exciting opportunities for you and help make your learning experience as realistic as possible. Previous site visits and demonstrations have included interactive fire demonstrations at Derbyshire Fire and Rescue Training Station and mock scenarios with the Rail Accident Investigations Branch.
You’ll benefit from the expertise of visiting police forensic trainers on projects in our crime scene house and we also offer the opportunity for you to undertake a placement with EMSOU in their forensic imaging unit, footwear unit or forensic analytical service laboratories.
Not just watching the detectives – working with them too
Our Forensic Science student Rebekah Muldowney is working with police forensics officers and detectives as part of her extended work placement in a CSI unit.
Find out how Rebekah is standing out from the crowd
Find out how Rebekah is standing out from the crowd
Conduct your own research
For your final-year research project, you will have the chance to focus on the area which interests you most. Our students have undertaken fascinating investigations into everything from ballistics and trace detection of explosives to forensic photography and document analysis to entomotoxicology and analysis of new psychoactive substances.
We support you to share your research through high-profile conferences or forensic journals. Such activities can raise your profile as a talent of the future, helping you to stand out in a highly competitive job market. Our students and graduates have gone on to win prestigious awards from organisations like FIRN, Royal Society of Chemistry and the Fingerprint Society, or to present innovative projects at the Houses of Parliament.
Two Million Insects!
Ashleigh Whiffin, Forensic Science graduate, has a keen interest in entomology. She now looks after a collection of two million insect specimens at the National Museums Scotland.
Read more about Ashleigh's story
Read more about Ashleigh's story
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Our course provides a variety of learning experiences to engage you, including crime scene training, lectures, practical sessions and fieldtrips.
You’ll be assessed through a range of mediums, including, but not limited to, formal witness statements and expert testimony, case studies, essays, laboratory reports, portfolios, examinations and presentations.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Esther Crooks
Programme Leader
Dr Esther Crooks
Esther is a lecturer in Forensic Chemistry and teaches Analytical and Forensic Chemistry on the Forensic Science undergraduate programmes. She also teaches Chemistry at the Foundation level and supervises third-year students interested...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC (At least a grade C in either Biology, Human Biology or Chemistry (or equivalent qualification). This also includes Applied Science, a BTEC Science subject or Access Science)
T Level
Merit in Science
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6. Must include passes in compulsory Level 3 subjects
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
You will receive goggles and a laboratory coat
All equipment and consumables needed for your experimental/ fieldwork are provided by the University. This is subject to the type of project and consumables being approved by your programme leader
If a DBS check is needed for the purposes of a module or programme related work placement, this is included in your fee if done via the University
Access to specialist software: Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS)
Optional costs not included in your fees
In addition to the material provide, some students like to create their own forensic toolkit to support crime scene work - cost is dependent on the items you choose to purchase
All recommended books are available in our library; however, you may wish to purchase optional textbooks or e-books to support your studies - costs for these are dependent on your choice
This course is accredited by the Chartered Society of Forensic Science and so you can become an associate member whilst you are studying, if that is the case you must cover membership costs
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Forensic science at Derby gives you a solid foundation for success in a challenging profession. You could pursue your career in the forensic science sector, criminal justice system, insurance companies or any industry where a good science degree is invaluable.
Our graduates now work in roles such as:
Scenes of crime officers
Analytical chemists
Forensic laboratory technicians
Forensic intelligence analysts
Microbiologists
PCR analysts
They are employed by police forces as well as companies like SOCOTEC, Cellmark, Minerva Scientifics, Rolls-Royce, Lubrizol and LGC Forensics. This course has a strong reputation for producing highly employable graduates: in one of many success stories, graduate
Natalie Harrison
secured a position as a toxicology analyst within a week of finishing her final exam.
The degree also provides a firm foundation for postgraduate level learning. As it is an applied science course, it equips you to progress to qualifications in medicine and can pave the way to MSc, MRes, MPhil or PhD study. Some students also go on to teaching careers within secondary or further education after studying our
PGCE Secondary (Schools Direct)
or
PGCE Post-14 (Education and Training)
qualification.
Through our Professional Development Package, you'll gain valuable transferable skills, including:
Written and verbal communication
Research and analytical
Personal motivation, organisation and self-reflection
Numeracy
IT literacy
Critical awareness
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Forensic Science with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Forensic Science with Criminology BSc (Hons)
Forensic Science with Criminology with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Chat to our students
−
Forensic Science student interview
View Forensic Science student interview video transcript