Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/forensic-science-courses/forensic-science-msc/

Forensic Science MSc - Forensic Science - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Forensic Science
Forensic Science MSc
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
The Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences
Forensic Science
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year
UK fee
£9,000 for the full course or £1,000 per 20 credits*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
The highlights
If you are a Forensic Science graduate, this Masters will deepen your specialist forensics knowledge, advance your broader laboratory analysis skills, and enable you to undertake research in an area of your choice
If you are a graduate from another science discipline (such as chemistry, pharmaceutical sciences or another analytical science), this Masters will enable you to learn specialist forensic science skills and techniques, at the same time as building on your expertise in laboratory analysis and research
You will have access to a range of specialist facilities, including our Forensic Training Facility, forensic laboratories, specialist imaging suite, insectary, forensic anthropology suite, photography suite, vehicles, clandestine burial site, courtroom, and ballistics laboratory
Our highly-acclaimed teaching team have a wealth of industry and research experience, both in the UK and internationally
This course is accredited by
The Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences
, which ensures a high standard of teaching is met.
Student feedback - Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
100
%
overall satisfaction
100
%
of students agreed that staff are enthusiastic about what they teach
100
%
of students agreed that staff are good at explaining things
100
%
of students agreed that the course is intellectually stimulating
100
%
of students agreed that the learning materials provided were useful
100
%
of students agreed that their research skills have developed during the course
A new kind of Forensic Science MSc
This Masters has been specifically designed to appeal to both graduates of forensic science, and graduates of other analytical science degrees. It enables you to: advance your scientific analysis skills and apply these to a forensic science context, develop your own specialisms (such as in entomology, fire analysis or drug analysis), and pursue your own research interests.
You will learn to use your scientific knowledge in practical ways, working closely with our expert lecturers to undertake research and gain insight into industry.
This Masters covers a broad range of subjects relating to the application, interpretation and validation of laboratory based analytical techniques. For instance, we will cover areas such as:
advanced professional and employability skills for forensic scientists
separation science/chromatography
advanced bioanalytical techniques, such as biological presumptives / screening, ELISA/EIA, PCR, capillary electrophoresis, advanced microscopy
advanced analysis of crime scenes and evidence, which may include fire, entomology, blood pattern, DVI/anthropology, drugs and more
spectroscopy and structural analysis
research methods and data interpretation.
You will also undertake an Independent Research Project in a specialism of your choice, supported by an academic supervisor. The aim is to develop high-quality, original research that could be published. This will enable you to deepen your knowledge in a particular area of forensic science, and gain vital research experience if you're intending to move on to a PhD or further research after the programme.
View MSc Forensic Science at the University of Derby video transcript
Specialist facilities
Our bespoke Forensic Training Facility includes several crime scenes. There are domestic crime scenes — including a bedroom, lounge, garage and office — and there are also commercial crime scenes, such as a pharmacy or pub. The Facility also features a blood pattern analysis room used for both teaching and research, as well as state-of-the-art digital surveillance, including panoramic CCTV and equipment for two-way audio recording, so you can get live feedback during your investigations.
Other forensic science facilities include:
an osteology lab for skeletal study
ninhydrin and cyanoacrylate fuming chambers for fingerprint development
a wet forensic lab
a darkroom for specialised light searching
an entomology lab and insectary for insect investigation
a clandestine burial site
a ballistics laboratory
replica courtroom for presenting evidence
two crime scene cars, and
forensic imaging facilities.
This is an applied science MSc that teaches you to be highly analytical, so we have dedicated forensic, biological and chemical laboratories featuring a range of modern instrumentation. Our analytical equipment includes:
Gas chromatography — mass spectrometry (GC-MS), including automated head space (HS) and solid phase microextraction (SPME) samplers
Gas chromatography — flame ionisation detection (GC-FID)
High performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with ultra-violet (UV) and diode array detection (DAD)
Liquid chromatography — mass spectrometry (LC-MS)
Ion chromatography (IC)
Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)
Scanning electron microscopy with X-ray diffraction (SEM-XRD)
Atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS), including graphite furnace AAS (GF-AAS)
Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), including attenuated total reflectance stage (ATR-FTIR)
Ultra-violet/visible spectrophotometry (UV-Vis)
Fluorescence microscopy
Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) for DNA analysis
Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE)
Capillary electrophoresis (CE).
New Bioscience Superlab
The University of Derby has been awarded £5.8 million from the Office for Students (OfS) to develop a new technology enhanced Bioscience Superlab and Research Lab with an opening date in 2025.
Find out more about the Superlab and Research Lab
Find out more about the Superlab and Research Lab
Expert teaching. Inspiring research.
Our staff are supportive, approachable and passionate about their subjects. We have a great balance of expertise: some of the team are leading researchers, while others have significant experience in the forensic science industry  — both in the UK and internationally.
Our research staff are conducting important studies into fields such as entomology, forensic photography, anthropology, taphonomy, drug analysis, and fire investigations.
Strong industry links
Our Forensic Science team have developed strong links with local industry providers, such as:
EMSOU-FS
(East Midlands Special Operations Unit — Forensic Science)
SOCOTEC
Derbyshire Constabulary
Blakes Emergency Services
, and others.
We will use these links to find exciting, real world research projects for you to work on, so you can keep up with current issues and raise your profile in the industry at the same time. You will have other networking opportunities too, such as at the University's Biomedical and Forensic Science Employability Conference.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You will study a range of modules such as:
Professional Forensic Scientist
Separation Sciences
Advanced Bioanalytical Techniques
Advanced Crime Scene and Evidence Analysis
Spectroscopy and Structural Analysis
Research Methods and Data Interpretation
Research Project
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
During this Masters programme, you will learn in a variety of ways, including through crime scene training, lectures, workshops, practical laboratory sessions and court room role-play.
Your assessments may include formal witness statements and expert testimony, essays, laboratory reports, timed assessments, presentations and a dissertation.
Who will teach you
Dr Andy Chick
Programme Leader
Dr Andy Chick
Andy is a lecturer in Forensic Science and the program lead of the MSc Forensic Science course. His background is in forensic entomology and microscopy.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
Applicants should have a 2:2 or above in BSc Hons Forensic Science; degrees in related analytical science subjects will also be considered.
If English is not your first language, you will also need IELTS 6.5 with 6.0 in each skills area.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,000 for the full course or £1,000 per 20 credits*
N/A
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course or £1,055 per 20 credits*
N/A
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
You will receive a  laboratory coat and crime scene suit
Access to specialist software: Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS)
Travel and entrance fees covered for fieldtrips where suitable/possible to examine fire scenes and observe a post mortem examination
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Most assignments are submitted through an online.  However, you are expected to produce a poster which would cost around £15
Optional costs not included in your fees
In addition to the material provide, some students like to create their own forensic toolkit to support crime scene work - cost is dependent on the items you choose to purchase
All recommended books are available in our library; however, you may wish to purchase optional textbooks or e-books to support your studies - costs for these are dependent on your choice
This course is accredited by the Chartered Society of Forensic Science and so you can become an associate member whilst you are studying, if that is the case you must cover membership costs
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
Having an MSc in Forensic Science will give you a competitive edge in the jobs market over those with just undergraduate degrees. On this MSc for instance, you will be able to develop your specialism and build up more practical laboratory experience. You will also have postgraduate-level research experience, which the industry now recognises as important, following publication of guidance and legislation such as
The Forensics Review (2019)
and the
Forensic Science Regulator Act (2021)
.
Both these documents stress the need for continuing research, innovation and development in forensic science, to ensure greater effectiveness of the Criminal Justice System.
This MSc ensures you develop essential technical skills and knowledge that can be applied in many professional contexts. Of course, it will give you the specialist skills required to work in the forensic science industry, in areas such as crime scene investigation or analysis of evidence. However, it will also enable you to pursue other career paths within the analytical sciences, such as in:
chemical and biomedical sciences
pharmaceutical analysis
clinical and forensic toxicology
food safety and environmental analysis
doctoral research
teaching and lecturing.
In addition, this MSc will help you build transferable skills that are valued in all industries, such as:
project management
research skills and methods
quality control
method development and validation
data analysis
problem solving, and
critical thinking.
All in all, you will emerge from this programme as a well-rounded, highly-employable graduate.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.