Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/access-courses/foundation-pathways/

Foundation Pathways Programme - Access - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Access
Foundation Pathways Programme
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Foundation Pathways Programme
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year (further 3 years on your chosen degree)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
The Foundation Pathways Programme is the foundation year with a difference. If you have been out of education for a while, it gives you the opportunity to build up your knowledge base and skills. Each pathway is relevant to a discipline of study, which students choose based on what degree they want to progress on to.
If you want to start studying again after some time away, this course may be ideal for you
You will have the chance to develop your study skills to prepare you for undergraduate study
Our tutors are supportive and encouraging, and will help you achieve your career aspirations
You will be able to work on your Maths and English skills
Students will study on routes depending on their choice of degree/progression route
As well as improving your language and numeracy skills, you will develop confidence in writing essays and reports, undertaking research, analysing numbers, doing presentations, managing your time and working as part of a team.
Throughout this course, you'll be able to use the library, which has a large collection of books and journals, as well as different areas for group work and individual study. There is also plenty of IT equipment for use.
Progression
On successful completion of the Foundation Pathways Programme course and any English and/or Maths, if being studied, you can progress on to a range of degrees at Derby (subject to meeting the individual course requirements).
However, the course is not suitable for progression on to any NHS related, Social Work or Primary Education (BEd) degrees.
)
For details on the Joint Honours degrees visit our
Joint Honours
webpage.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Business Pathway -
Academic Skills, Business, Business Communications and Law
Computing Pathway
(GCSE Maths 9-4/A-C plus GCSE A-C/9-4 English Language or Functional Skills Level 2 English needed as a pre-requisite) Academic Skills, Computing, Level 3 Maths and Information Technology
Criminology and Law Pathway -
Academic Skills, Law, Criminology and Advocacy
Engineering Pathway
(GCSE Maths 9-4/A-C plus GCSE A-C/9-4 English Language or Functional Skills Level 2 English needed as a pre-requisite) Academic Skills, Physics, Level 3 Maths and Information Technology
Humanities and Social Science Pathway -
Academic Skills, Level 3 English, History and Sociology
Psychology Pathway -
Academic Skills, Psychology, Sociology and Criminology
Science Pathway
(GCSE Maths 9-4/A-C plus GCSE A-C/9-4 English Language or Functional Skills Level 2 English needed as a pre-requisite) Academic Skills, Biology, Biology of Disease and Illness, and Chemistry
Sports Pathway
(GCSE Maths 9-4/A-C plus GCSE A-C/9-4 English Language or Functional Skills Level 2 English needed as a pre-requisite) Academic Skills, Biology, Psychology and Information Technology
English and Maths
Students who do not have relevant level 2 English and/or Maths qualifications will be encouraged to complete Functional Skills alongside the programme.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
A diverse range of teaching and learning activities are used across each subject. Sessions are interactive and work to include student participation and student-led tasks. You will likely learn differently in each taught session; some sessions utilise group-work, others will focus on independent research and investigation. Scheduled teaching hours are led by your tutor who designs the learning accordingly to the group profile and therefore you will be exposed to a vast range of practises – this also helps demonstrate the techniques/strategies reviewed within the subjects.
Enrichment
Wider enrichment takes place to supplement learning across the academic year. There are opportunities where guest speakers attend to deliver short talks, and also opportunities to meet with degree teaching staff, so you can learn about your undergraduate course. You will also have access to the University of Derby’s library and on-site facilities for Further Education students.
How you can be assessed
You will be assessed through a range of different assessments that include essay writing, presentations, writing and academic posters. Assessments are explained within each unit and support is offered to scaffold your progress throughout the course. These are all designed to apply the knowledge, skills and behaviours from sessions (and wider reading/experiences) into areas of interest within education.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
N/A
A Level
N/A
BTEC
N/A
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
N/A
For the
Computing, Engineering, Science and Sports pathways
you will need to have evidence of achieving GCSE Maths 9-4/A-C plus GCSE English Language A-C/9-4 or Functional Skills Level 2 English as a pre-requisite.
For Business, Humanities and Social Science, Psychology or the Law and Criminology pathways
we would prefer applicants to hold GCSE A-C (9-4) English Language and Maths or Functional Skills Level 2 in English and Maths. If you do not already hold these qualifications, you will be required to take a literacy and numeracy assessment before we can offer you a place to check your suitability for the course.
English language requirements
IELTS: 5.5 (with at least 5.0 in each skills area)
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are interested in this course,
please complete our form
to receive more information including a presentation covering
course details, fees, financing options, career insights, research opportunities, and guidance on career advice.
After you've completed the advice and guidance process, you can proceed with your application through the following methods:
Full-time students applying in September should apply for this course through UCAS or you can Apply directly to the University. for an undergraduate course if you’re not applying to any other UK university in the same year
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
International students
Full-time students applying in September should apply for this course through
UCAS
or you can Apply directly to the University. for an undergraduate course if you’re not applying to any other UK university in the same year.
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Once you've successfully completed the Foundation Programme you can choose from many degrees that the University offers.
What our students say
Amy Eldridge - Foundation Pathways Programme Student 2020/2021
"I completed the Psychology Foundation Pathway in 2021. Having been out of education for 24 years I cannot deny how nervous I felt starting my academic journey at the age of 41. However, it was the best decision I have ever made. Taking into consideration the pandemic, at that time, support was forthcoming from lecturers and the university.
The Psychology Pathway is not limited to Psychology, it covers Criminology, Sociology, Social Policy, and Academic Skills. All of which have been invaluable for the first year of my degree. Although initially, I aspired to study Psychology, the Foundation Programme opened avenues of thought for other subjects. Therefore, I chose to study Sociology at degree level, and I can honestly say without completing the Foundation Programme I would not have found my passion.
I am confident that my fellow Sociology students are tired of me saying “we covered this last year”. Yet they have taken full advantage of my citing and referencing skills and the criteria the University of Derby look for when marking.
I cannot recommend the Foundation Programme enough; it is hard work, but it pays off and has been vital for the first year of my degree. Without it, I believe I would not be achieving the grades I have, as I am predicted to finish Year 1 with the equivalent of a 2:1. Thank you so much to all the lecturers on the Foundation Pathways Programme your support and knowledge have been instrumental in creating a bright future."
Hasheyehosh Sumbanowsky - Foundation Pathways Programme Student 2019/2020
"My experience on the foundation programme was a very pleasant and rewarding one, as I was exposed to areas of study I hadn't thought I was capable of studying before, such as Philosophy, Computing and Physics, and I am glad to have performed exceptionally well, thanks to the brilliance of both the lecturers' and my hard work, as well as access to the university's library resources and online learning portal (Course Resources on Udo).
I would recommend the course to any undergraduate, no matter their previous experience, as it not only helped me refresh and hone my academic skills (through the Study Skills module) but also prepared me fully for the rigorous expectations on the undergraduate degree programme!"
Rebecca Brock - Foundation Pathways Programme Student 2017/2018
"The Foundation Pathways Programme definitely paved the way for the success I have had since completing it."
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Course
access@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591080
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.