Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/general-medical-ultrasound/

General Medical Ultrasound - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
General Medical Ultrasound
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
General Medical Ultrasound
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Fees and funding
Module details
Module code
7RD511
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
40 credits
Next course date
October
Location
Online
Module description
About this module
The module focuses on development of competence in assessment of a broad range of general medical ultrasound referrals. This includes recognition and interpretation of ultrasound findings in common/ complex pathologies of the abdomen and male pelvis and normal appearances / common pathologies of the female pelvis.
There are a total of 400 total learning hours for the module, which includes seven full days of on campus teaching / tutorials and directed study tasks. In addition, you will require access to a suitable clinical placement for a recommended minimum of 14 hours (two days) per week supervised scanning practice for the duration of the module.
To enrol to this module:
you must be studying or have completed the Principles of Medical Ultrasound module (or an equivalent qualification).
you must have access to a recommended minimum of two days per week supervised scanning practice with a named ultrasound mentor.
Entry is subject to discussion with module leader and completion of a practice based agreement.
Who is this course for
All Health Professionals
Fees and funding
If you are funding your own study, the module price will be confirmed shortly.
For more information on payment options, please contact our Student Records and Fees team by phone on
+44 (0)1332 591063
or email at
studentrecordsandfees@derby.ac.uk
.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
E:
lbr@derby.ac.uk
T:
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.