Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/earth-science-courses/geoenergy-msc/

GeoEnergy MSc - Earth Sciences - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Earth Sciences
GeoEnergy MSc
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
GeoEnergy (incorporating PG Cert/PG Dip)
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 3 years
UK fee
£10,450 for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£19,950 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Introducing GeoEnergy
GeoEnergy is a broad and rapidly evolving field incorporating a spectrum of traditional and innovative geologically focused energy generation and storage strategies as well as the provision of carbon mitigation technologies to the wider energy sector.
The field of GeoEnergy includes both conventional energy generation technologies, such as hydrocarbons, as well as new and developing strategies including geothermal resources and hydrogen exploration and production.
GeoEnergy also encompasses other energy provision technologies, including the subsurface storage of natural gas and hydrogen and Compressed Air Energy Storage (CAES) systems.
GeoEnergy practitioners are key to the adoption of carbon mitigation technologies including Carbon Capture, Utilisation and Storage (CCUS), enhanced weathering and radioactive waste storage.
The safe efficient adoption of these technologies requires a detailed understanding of the subsurface geological environment – such understanding can only be provisioned by geoscientists.
Student feedback - Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
100
%
of students agreed that staff are good at explaining things
100
%
of students agreed that the learning materials provided on the course were useful
100
%
of students agreed that their research skills have developed during the course
Be prepared for the Global Energy Transition
This innovative course has been designed to produce world-class graduates with the transferable skills to actively contribute to the global energy transition, have the ability to address climate change and the expertise to integrate emerging and conventional technologies. You will consider a variety of energy sources, with your main focus being on how to responsibly obtain energy from the Earth and how we employ geological resources to mitigate global warming.
The course studies all aspects of the GeoEnergy sector including energy exploration and production, environmental impact assessment, and protecting the climate while powering the economy and providing for society. The course is taught by our research-active teaching team as well as by industry experts bringing you the latest practises and developments from the GeoEnergy sector.
On the course, you will:
Study a programme which is recognised for high professional standards: our MSc is accredited by
The Geological Society
Gain knowledge of the broad GeoEnergy sector
Achieve an understanding of locating and evaluating subsurface geoenergy sources
Apply your knowledge of related energy options to prepare for the carbon-neutral transition, such as geothermal energy and carbon capture, utilisation and storage
Acquire experience in the use of a wide range of industry software in the fields of: seismic interpretation, GIS, petrophysics, gravity & magnetics, reservoir/fluid modelling
Gain practical skills (such as core logging and wireline log interpretation) that enhance employability
Learn to communicate effectively to peers, managers and the public in order to disseminate accurate information and thereby enable informed dialogues during the integrated energy transition
Collaborate on live projects with UK Geoenergy Observatories to put your skills into practice
Be able to provide solutions which carefully balance providing affordable and sustainable energy with enhancing social, economic, and environmental prosperity
Study content aligned to the priorities of global initiatives, such as the UK Net Zero strategy, and United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals
Work with our research-active teaching team who have a wealth of experience in renewable energy, climate change, and conventional and unconventional hydrocarbons
Demand for new energy
Energy is vital to our everyday lives, but how we obtain it is changing. Many parts of the world are stepping up to the energy challenge, with governments in Germany, Denmark and Kenya actively pursuing new geothermal district heating schemes, and petroleum companies already running CO
2
injection projects in Algeria, Norway and further proposed sites. Local and UK governmental authorities are starting to consider energy needs of the population and CO
2
impact of choices in deciding future energy resources.
The UK 25 Year Environment Plan identifies 'mitigating and adapting to climate change' as a key goal. In addition, the
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
seek to build a platform for the future, in particular the goals below:
Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all
Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth
Goal 11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable
Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production
Goals 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts
Geoscientists play a crucial role in this transition as their specialist skills include being able to help not only secure future energy, but also ensure that solutions are implemented in an environmentally-sensitive manner.
Our course prepares students to produce a range of energy-producing techniques that can be applied in the UK and globally.
Prime location
Our campus is situated in the heart of England, with easy access to a wealth of world-class geological localities, as well as the British Geological Survey offices and several major geo-technical companies for off-site visits. During the course, you will participate in residential and non-residential field trips to a fabulous range of geological localities spanning much of the geological record.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
During the course you will study modules such as:
Global Energy Challenges
- You will examine a range of energy sources considering mode of provision, financial cost and viability of current and future contributions to the global energy mix. Environmental, ecological and societal impacts and mitigation strategies will also be assessed
Subsurface Geology
- You shall be introduced to a range of geophysical methods to investigate subsurface properties. You will use standard commercial software packages to interpret a range of subsurface data
Geofluid Behaviour
- In this module you will Investigate properties of fluids involved in energy production
Subsurface Interpretation Methods
- You will apply a range of sedimentological, stratigraphic, petrophysical and geophysical methods to interpret the subsurface with a particular focus on reservoir characterisation
Positioning and Designing Wells and Reservoir Models
- You will investigate well technology for a range of geoenergy and related projects. You will use subsurface data to produce a reservoir model
Integrated Energy Evaluation
- You will examine sedimentary basins in terms of their mode of formation, sedimentary fill, energy prospectivity and resource potential. You will use basin modelling and field techniques to both predict and explain the presence of energy-producing fluids in basin evolution by applying a sequence stratigraphic approach
Independent Scholarly Activity
(project focused on your specific area of interest) - During this final module you will partake in an independent investigation applied to a topic or site of energy focus, likely to be Geothermal, Carbon Capture, ulilisation and Storage, Hydrocarbon Exploration/Production
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Learning and teaching methods will vary between modules. The course is delivered face-to-face, by University lecturers and industry experts, and learning materials can be accessed online. Your transferable skills will be assessed on written reports and essays, oral presentations, independent and group assessments practical exercises, including mastery of industry-standard software suites.
Technical specialist skills include:
Seismic interpretation and processing (using Schlumberger, Petrel and IHS Kingdom software)
Gravity analysis of basins (using FastGray software)
Interpretation of basin Heat Flow results (using Sirius Exploration Geochemistry Novva software)
Sedimentological and stratigraphical logging and interpretation of core and outcrops to industry-standards
Reservoir modelling for fluid connectivity (Petrel)
Computational analysis (reservoir, seal and volume assessment based on wireline, fluid and sediment data)
Commercial decision-making (viable drilling plan, energy production vs cost, appropriate energy source, prospect risking)
Parts of some modules are taught by industry experts, ensuring that you stay up-to-date with the latest developments and techniques within the GeoEnergy sector.
An expert, research-active teaching team
This course sits within the School of Environmental Sciences, home to a broad range of research-active specialists, currently studying topics such as the implications of renewable energy for urban communities, climate change, the potential of biofuels, and fluid flow in carbonate host rocks. The programme team for this course includes:
Dr
Stephen Lokier
: (Programme Leader) Stephen has more than 20 years of practical applied experience in the fields of sedimentary geology, reservoir characterisation, palaeontology, sequence stratigraphy and environmental geology, working with academia, industry, local government and NGO’s. He has carried out a range of research but a particular focus of his research has been the study of carbonate deposition in stressed environments including settings under the influence of volcanic activity and arid high-salinity settings such as those found in the Arabian Gulf. He is also a member of a range of professional bodies including the Geological Society of London, International Association of Sedimentologists, and Palaeontological Association.
Dr Jordan Phethean
: Jordan is a keen researcher and his expertise include plate tectonic modelling, gravity and magnetic data, rifted margins, numerical modelling, seismic interpretation, GIS, geodynamics, and structural geology. His research focuses on applying plate tectonic theory to answer questions such as: What is the role of the lithosphere in controlling plate motions? Why do some continents break up 'magmatically' whilst others are 'magma-poor'? Where really is the East African transform margin? How and why do 'microcontinents' form? Gaza's deep aquifer: can fresh water be found for the 2 million inhabitants in dire need?
Dr Dorothy Satterfield
: After completing her undergraduate and postgraduate degrees at Georgia State University, Dorothy studied for her doctorate at the University of Oxford. Her professional interests include sedimentology, seismic interpretation, thin section petrology, and basin anaylsis. Dorothy is a member of several professional bodies: UK Onshore Geophysical Library trustee, and a member of the Petroleum Exploration Society of Great Britain, the London Petrophysical Society, European Association of Geoscientists and Engineers, and the GSA.
Who will teach you
Dr Stephen Lokier
Programme Leader
Dr Stephen Lokier
Stephen is a Senior Lecturer in Applied Sedimentology and GeoEnergy and Programme Leader for the MSc GeoEnergy Programme. Stephen teaches across the broad field of sedimentology, stratigraphy and subsurface analysis and characterisatio...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
We typically require at least a 2:1 Honours degree in Geology or a closely related subject, such as Geophysics with Geology. Your application may also be considered if you have relevant work experience.
We also offer a self-guided short online
Bridge to GeoEnergy
course for those with a science degree in a subject other than geology, for those with an engineering background and for geology graduates returning to geosciences. This course provides a practical foundation in the areas of applied geology that are critical to studying for a higher degree in GeoEnergy.
International students should have the above or an international equivalent. If English is not your first language, you will need to hold IELTS 6.0 or above.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£10,450 for the full course*
£1,161 per 20 credits
International
£19,950 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
You will be provided with relevant PPE as required
All equipment and consumables needed for your experimental/field work are provided by the University, this is subject to the consumables required being costed by you and approval from your Programme Leader
All single-day fieldtrips are included in your course fee, as are residential field trips associated with mandatory modules
Full access to all industry-standard software required for completing your modules
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Appropriate footwear for fieldwork such as walking boots - approximate cost is between £40-£100
Appropriate outdoor clothing such as a waterproof jacket and trousers - approximate cost is between £100-£150
Optional costs not included in your fees
Hand lens - approximate cost is £20
Recommended textbooks - approximate cost is £100
Travel to work experience/placements - cost is dependent on your placement venue of choice
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
Over the past few years there has been a major shift by energy providers and government to ensure the provision of more sustainable, low-carbon energy.
To succeed in this new era of energy production and secure a sustainable mixed-energy economy, the sector requires leaders who are bold, knowledgeable and inventive in their approach. Our MSc in GeoEnergy equips you with applied knowledge of the employment of a wide range of geological techniques to identify energy-rich areas, and the ability to select and carry out the appropriate methods of producing energy while reducing CO
2
output to the atmosphere. The course prepares you to excel in organisations who produce strategies with a single energy focus, as well as those with combined energy strategies. Your newly acquired transferable skill sets are vital not only to oil and gas industries but also to environmental agencies and consultancies, alternative energy companies and geo-technical companies.
The UK Government predicts 220,000 jobs will be required to support the UK’s energy transition over the next 10 years.
Potential employment opportunities include:
Conventional and renewable energy companies
Consultancies to the energy sector
Environmental consultancies
National government agencies
Local government agencies
Public outreach consultancies
Non-governmental organisations
Environmental Sustainability Research Centre (ESRC)
Specialising in securing clean environments, nature recovery, and resilience to natural hazards, we work collaboratively to safeguard our planet for future generations.
Learn more about our research
Learn more about our research
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Environmental Assessment and Control MSc
Bridge to GeoEnergy
Institute of Acoustics Certificate of Competence in Environmental Noise Measurement
Institute of Acoustics Certificate of Competence in Workplace Noise Assessment