Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/logistics-supply-chain-management-courses/global-operations-supply-chain-management-msc/

Global Operations and Supply Chain Management MSc - Logistics and Supply Chain Management - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Logistics and Supply Chain Management
Global Operations and Supply Chain Management MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Global Operations and Supply Chain Management
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time:
†
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, January
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Become a student member of the
Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT)
and gain exemptions from the academic requirements for Chartered Membership (CMILT) of the CILT (UK)
Build high-level strategic awareness of the entire supply chain
Undertake practical problem-solving to boost your company’s efficiency, performance and profitability
Specialise in areas such as global operations, purchasing and supply, warehousing, transport and logistics
Be inspired by our industry-experienced academic team and our influential business contacts - in a city at the heart of a major logistics network
Learn how latest technology - from RFID to enterprise management systems can be harnessed for the benefit of your organisation
Enhance your career progression prospects and professional standing in a fast-growing global industry.
94
%
of students agree they are satisfied with the quality of their course
MSc Global Operations and Supply Chain Management -Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2024
The hallmark of our MSc Global Operations and Supply Chain Management is its emphasis on helping organisations to improve their efficiency and performance, within a global context. We will equip you with the skills, knowledge and insights to deliver such improvements through more effective global operations, supply chain design and management.
Keeping the wheels of business turning
Smooth movement of the supply chain is pivotal to business efficiency. On this dynamic applied programme, you'll gain an in-depth understanding of the systems, processes and modelling techniques which drive innovation and competitiveness.
Drawing on supply chain and logistics scenarios from your own and other organisations, you'll build the skills to pinpoint inefficiencies, plot strategies for improvement and ensure optimum supply chain performance. You'll be challenged intellectually but will also experience the practicalities of the business, applying the latest theory to real-world problems. The course also gives you the chance to focus on a particular area - such as procurement or warehousing and distribution - to match your personal interests and career ambitions.
Vital industry insights
Case studies, business consultancy projects, guest speakers and company visits to employers such as CEVA and Boots will help you learn more about supply chain operations in close up. Our teaching team has significant industry experience and an excellent network of contacts, so you'll be introduced to some of the key players in the field.
We host many events to connect you with the regional, national and international business community. One highlight of the calendar is our Logistics Week, which brings together some of the giants from the sector and professional bodies to showcase latest developments and technologies.
The event attracts representatives from industry leaders such as DHL, Boots, Toyota, Norbert Dentressangle, Thorntons, CEVA Logistics and Kuehne + Nagel. Our 2016 Logistics Week featured a guest lecture by Dr Pete Waterman, famed not only for his role as a producer-songwriter but also for his work to champion the rail industry.
Professional credibility
We're committed to helping you meet the highest standards. We draw on best practice by working with prominent professional bodies to keep your learning relevant, meaningful and up to date. Our MSc Global Operations and Supply Chain Management is accredited by the
Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport in the UK
(CILT UK), meaning if you become a student member of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT), you'll gain exemptions from the academic requirements for Chartered Membership (CMILT) of the CILT (UK), adding further credibility to your CV.
Our close links with the
Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply
(CIPS) and the
Chartered Management Institute
(CMI) also enable you to place supply chain challenges within wider business and sector contexts.
At the heart of a logistics network
Derby has long been a major hub for road, rail and air logistics, so we are ideally placed to keep you in touch with what's new in the industry. We're on the doorstep of a massive supply chain network and connected into a business community which includes high-profile names like Rolls-Royce and Toyota.
With transport advances such as the HS2 rail network and new freight corridors on the horizon, you'll gain insights into the important debates which are shaping the future of supply chain management.
An international outlook
It goes without saying that the successful logistics professional needs to think globally. Our MSc delivers international perspectives every step of the way, with specialist modules which extend your thinking and broaden your career scope. You will study alongside students and be inspired by tutors from countries as far afield as India, Malaysia and Iran - a vibrant learning community where you can share experiences and make truly international connections.
Research that pushes boundaries
Derby Business School has a long-standing record as a Centre of Excellence in supply chain and logistics. Our
Centre for Supply Chain Improvement
is charting new territory in everything from artificial intelligence to radio-frequency identification (RFID). The centre's work feeds into our MSc Global Operations and Supply Chain Management - keeping you up to date with latest thinking and innovative ideas.
New Derby Business School in the city centre
We're building a new Derby Business School, serving as an international centre of excellence. The superb new teaching facilities will build on our established reputation for inspirational teaching and research excellence, as we shape the next generation of qualified business leaders.
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
The course is made up of three stages - Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma and MSc.
To complete the MSc Global Operations and Supply Chain Management, you'll study modules such as:
Postgraduate Certificate
Global Strategic Supply Chain Management
Improving Supply Chain and Logistics Operations
Storage and Warehousing
International Purchasing Contexts in a Digital Age
Postgraduate Diploma
Enterprise Systems Management and Digitalisation
Supply Chain Analytics and Systems Modelling
Sustainable Transportation and Freight Logistics
International Procurement and Inventory Management
MSc
Independent Study: Research Methods (20 credits)
Independent Study: Dissertation (40 credits)
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Our focus is on developing your analytical skills so that you can evaluate an organisation's supply chain practices. You will apply the methods and techniques you learn to specific tasks within an organisation.
MSc Global Operations and Supply Chain Management is underpinned by our teaching team's significant sector and subject experience, supported by contributions from current practitioners in senior supply chain roles.
How you are assessed
Assessment methods vary according to the module. Coursework assessment may include essays, management reports, exams, presentations and group work. As this is an applied programme and our focus is on preparing you for career success, assessment by examination is very much the exception.
Who will teach you
Dr Jay Daniel
Programme Leader
Dr Jay Daniel
Dr Jay Daniel is a Programme Leader at Derby Business School. Before joining the University of Derby, Jay was a Lecturer in Supply Chain and Information Systems at the University of Technology Sydney, Australia, and has previously...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You will normally hold:
a bachelor’s degree in a relevant discipline at 2:2 level or above, or
an international or professional programme equivalent (eg CIPS or CILT level 6) qualification
If English is not your first language, you will also need IELTS 6.5 with 5.5 in each skills area.
Applicants with a lower classification qualification may still be considered for entry to the programme if you can demonstrate a relevant level of work experience and/or knowledge to work at the required level.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
CILT Membership
Opportunity of part funded trips, optional with limited places available
Access to Finance Lab
Access to a range of software on university lab PCs
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Full-time 12 month and part-time
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
The supply chain sector is poised for rapid growth and provides exciting openings for well qualified managers locally, nationally and worldwide.
Graduates of our MSc Global Operations and Supply Chain Management can advance their careers in many areas of supply chain management, taking up roles in operational management, business analysis and consultancy or specialising in areas such as distribution and logistics or procurement.
Students already working within the sector will find this MSc strengthens their CV and accelerates their career progression to senior management roles in supply chain operations, project management and strategic operations.
Ongoing careers support
Throughout your studies, you will benefit from our Personal Development Planning (PDP) scheme which enables you to reflect on your learning and refine your career ambitions.
Our support continues once you've completed your course too: you are entitled to further help and guidance from the
Careers and Employment Service
for up to three years after leaving the University.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
† Additional information about your studies
Full time: 1 year
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Master of Business Administration - MBA Global
Marketing