Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/global-affairs-international-relations-courses/global-affairs-politics-ba-hons-foundation/

Global Affairs and Politics with Foundation Year BA (Hons) - Global Affairs and International Relations - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Global Affairs and International Relations
Global Affairs and Politics with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Global Affairs and Politics with Foundation Year
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
L20F
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
The highlights
A new course for people who want to really understand the world we live in and have a burning desire to make things better
It's unique because it blends the study of history, politics and journalism to shed light on the root causes of today's societal issues
Develop problem-solving skills and a 'can do' attitude that will help you go into a wide range of job roles including in politics, campaigning, think-tanks, NGOs, charities, civil or diplomatic services.
Global Affairs and Politics - your questions answered
In the below video, Head of School of Humanities and Journalism, Alistair Hodge, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Global Affairs and Politics at the University of Derby.
View Global Affairs and Politics - your questions answered! video transcript
First understand. Then influence.
This unique BA (Hons) in Global Affairs and Politics is for people who want to understand and influence what is happening in the world — at either a local, regional, national or international level. It's the perfect time to launch this programme because never in human history has so much rapid change been apparent. The climate crisis, biodiversity and habitat loss, the Covid-19 pandemic, the rise of populism, threats to free speech and democracy around the world, ageing populations: these are just some of the challenges we face as we begin the 2020s.
At the same time there are many areas of opportunity. New and sustainable technologies promise a future with clean energy and zero-emissions vehicles, while social media enables people to work together to challenge  prevailing orthodoxies, prejudices and governments. There is youth activism and widespread movements for racial and societal justice.
If you want to play a role in shaping some of these crucial global issues, this BA (Hons) in Global Affairs and Politics is a great starting point. The world needs well-informed, culturally aware citizens who can research and analyse the data, problem-solve and negotiate — and this is exactly what you will learn to do on this degree.
If these quotes resonate with you, we think you're right for this course:
"I have learned that you are never too small to make a difference"
— Greta Thunberg, environmental activist
"I'm an idealist without illusions"
— John F Kennedy
"The time is always right to do what is right."
— Martin Luther King Jr.
See issues from all angles
We'll discuss what's going on in the news each week and analyse the impact it's having — from political developments and technological or scientific breakthroughs, to economic matters and social movements. We'll also consider how the news is created and shaped, considering big issues such as freedom of the press and 'fake news'.
This course covers a huge variety of subjects, from politics and international affairs to anthropology, cultural studies, economics, data science, sociology, geography, history, languages, law, literature, international development, philosophy, marketing and media.
As well as giving you great all-round knowledge, this enables you to analyse issues from different viewpoints and learn that there is never just one way to look at a problem.
You will learn about:
Political power
, by studying politics and government at all levels, from parish councils to the UN
Policy making and influencing
: How to bring about meaningful change by researching, analysing and proposing solutions to defined issues in society, the environment, or in government
Analysis and reporting
: The journalistic approaches used to research, analyse and report on the big issues of the day. You'll also work alongside journalists to produce your own news stories
Cultural contexts
: The different norms, attitudes, and disadvantage of the past and today and how this affects attitudes and behaviours. You'll learn to to work sensitively and with cultural intelligence.
We will also ensure you leave with a good understanding of the basics of data science, so that you can carefully assess some of the claims made by politicians and organisations in today's statistics-driven society.
Global and diverse
We expect this course to attract students from all over the world and are working with overseas universities to forge links. You will study issues from a wide range of countries including China, India, Brazil and America and you'll also learn from a diverse range of guest speakers. We also hope you will get involved in community projects, including those supporting the BAME (Black And Ethnic Minority) populations in our city and region.
Solve real problems
During this degree, you will get the opportunity to devise solutions to real problems and present your ideas to external audiences. In year two for example, there is a work experience module in which you'll be expected to work with a group, organisation or company on a project that either recommends or implements change. Then in year three, you'll get another opportunity to problem-solve with an advanced community or digital project, plus you'll develop a research paper about future sustainability and present its findings at a conference. So even while you're studying, you will have the chance to start making a difference.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
The following are
modules in which students may require Research Ethics Approval: Effecting and Negotiating Change, Global Affairs Dissertation and Advanced Community or Digital Project.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Our teaching methods will be varied, interactive and engaging. They include:
Online and face-to-face lectures, sometimes involving guest speakers
Seminars that encourage lots of debate and discussion
Work experience and real projects
Self-directed study
How you are assessed
In your final year, you will undertake an Independent Study module which incorporates quantitative data analysis and you'll also need to write a dissertation.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Simon Philo
Programme Leader
Simon Philo
Simon is Programme Leader for BA Liberal Arts; and Subject Leader for American Studies and Popular Music in Society.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Your fee includes any mandatory study visits and some social events
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
When you have completed this degree, you will be well-informed about the major global issues of our time and have a range of skills that employers really value, particularly:
negotiation and conflict resolution
being able to analyse evidence objectively, including using basic data science techniques
communication
problem-solving
cultural awareness.
You can put these skills to good use in a range of high-level careers, such as in politics, journalism, campaigning, think-tanks, NGOs (Non-Govermental Organisations), charities, the civil or diplomatic services, and inter-governmental institutions.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.