Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/global-and-environmental-public-health/

Global and Environmental Public Health - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Global and Environmental Public Health
Apply now
Apply now
Professional Course
Global and Environment Public Health
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Module details
Module code
7NU609
Module level
Level 7
Next course date
September (on-campus) January (online)
Duration
12 weeks (on-campus) 10 weeks (online)
Module description
About this module
This module will look at Environmental and Public Health issues in a global context. It will explore some of the major environmental and public health stressors that affect people in developing countries and look at examples of good practice, through case studies, of ways in which these stressors can be eliminated, controlled or mitigated.
The module may cover the following topics, however, we respond to current public health issues:
An introduction to the epidemiology of communicable diseases and the ways in which the burden of disease can be compared and evaluated between different countries.
A critical evaluation of the main diseases spread by poor sanitation and contamination of drinking water. For example cholera, schistosomiasis, food poisoning, dysentery, etc.
A critical evaluation of the main vector-borne diseases including malaria, DHF, African trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness), yellow fever, Japanese encephalitis, filariasis, Chagas Disease
The impact of pneumonia on the health of children in developing countries.
An evaluation of the worldwide spread of HIV/AIDS and the impact on the human population.
An evaluation of the worldwide spread of TB and the impact on the human population.
The WHO neglected tropical disease strategy.
Consideration of the approaches that have been successful in reducing the impact of the above diseases through a series of case studies.
Global extreme weather changes - effects of global warming & extreme heat, extreme wet weather, cold and drought.
Who is this course for
This course is for anyone who has an interest in global and environmental public health.
We have a mixture of students from a public health, biomedical science and hazards management courses as well as healthcare professionals, who currently study together.
Course team
Erica Lloyd
- Module Leader
You will also benefit from appropriate guest speakers involved with global and environmental public health issues, for example, Alan Whitefield, Environmental Specialist.
Learning outcomes
On successful completion of the module, you will be able to:
Through collaborative working, demonstrate a critical understanding of the main environmental health and public health stressors that face developing countries
Critically evaluate examples of good practice that can be used to control, mitigate or eliminate the impacts of these stressors
Entry requirements
You should have studied at level 6 previously and successfully completed a module / degree.
You should have the ability to study at level 7.
Fees and funding
This module is available to study online as a 10-week course or on-campus as a 12-week course.
Online study is £840 and on-campus study is £1000.
If this is an LBR (Learning Beyond Registration) course and you are eligible for LBR funding, the cost is funded by HEEM (Health Education East Midlands) -
check the list of LBR courses
.
For more information on payment options, please contact our Student Records and Fees team by phone on
+44 (0)1332 591063
or email at
studentrecordsandfees@derby.ac.uk
.
How to apply
Level 7
LBR applications
If you are applying for an LBR funded place, please Apply directly to the University.
Find out more about LBR and whether you are eligible for an LBR course
Apply directly to the University
Self-funded applications
If you are financing your study yourself, please contact Admissions on
01332 591167
or email
askadmissions@derby.ac.uk
to secure your place
Who will teach you
Erica Lloyd
Programme leader
As a Senior Lecturer in Post Graduate Nursing Erica has been part of the Specialist Community Public Health Nursing team since 2019. As Pathway lead for the School Nursing, she supports this cohort of students both academically and in practice.
View full staff profile
View full staff profile
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Erica Lloyd
e.lloyd@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1332 593927
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us