Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/art-design-courses/graphic-design-ba-hons/

Graphic Design BA (Hons)  - Art and Design - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Art and Design
Graphic Design BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Graphic Design
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
W211
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
Graphic design is seen, felt and experienced everywhere. Once focused on objects, graphic design is now increasingly concerned with contexts. Graphic designers inform, confront, persuade, entertain, provoke, challenge, question, direct and engage with the political, social and environmental issues of the world we live in.
The aim of the graphic design programme is to create passionate, creative, resourceful, entrepreneurial and adaptive problem-finders, who are prepared both technically and intellectually to embrace and exploit the opportunities that graphic design offers in the 21st Century.
Being a graphic designer is fun, stimulating and inspiring. Designers are creative problem-finders and solvers. You will be challenged to think differently, even professional designers are constantly developing their skills. There are always new trends, new technologies, new ideas, and new sources of inspiration – a creative mind never stops learning. It is more than just a job – it's a way of life.
The course is studio based, practical, hands-on and creative. It offers you many different ways to make graphic design work as you explore the different contexts and formats in which graphic design is experienced. It allows you to decide what kind of designer you want to be. It will test and challenge you to expand your understanding and knowledge of what graphic design is, what it can do and what it is for.
You will be introduced to typography and layout, drawing as observation and problem solving, identity and branding, packaging and point of purchase, exhibition design, publication and printing, and digital moving image. The course has a great resource base for you to use. Typically our students work on Apple Macs in computer labs, and in the Digital Print Hub you will be able to access (under guidance) high quality printing on many different types of materials, laser-cutting, book-binding, and other printing options, including screen print and Letterpress print in our Printing Studios.
You'll have the chance to work on live projects and competitions which in the past have included a collaborative project with Derby Museum to make new interpretive tools for their archaeology gallery. Students have also been briefed by the Royal Society of Arts (RSA) at Markeaton Street, for the RSA Student Design Awards. The RSA student briefs tackle social engagement and allow students to explore graphic design solutions for real world issues. And students from graphic design and illustration were shortlisted for the prestigious Penguin Student Design Awards.
We understand how important it is to have the professional skills that you need to make the transition from University to employment. So we have a professional practice module in the second year that is all about researching the industry, meeting designers and studios, building design networks, identifying your strengths and promoting yourself as a graphic designer. This work has helped our students prepare for graduate life, with 93.8% of our students being in graduate level destinations within six months of completing this course (HESA 2016).
94
%
of students agreed that they could explore ideas and concepts in depth
BA (Hons) Graphic Design - National Student Survey 2024
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Facilities
The Graphic Design studio provides you with an excellent environment to be curious, experimental and independently motivated. It is a location for both individual and group tuition, a creative space for the practice of sharing ideas and peer-learning, exercising creative skills, imagination, vision, innovation and ambition. This environment will be used to explore and undertake group work, peer evaluation, critiques and seminars as a means of complementing more individualistic and autonomous work. You will learn the importance of this creative space and utilise it to build networks, be open to new influences, and become part of a creative community, which encourages you to work both independently and cooperatively.
You'll also have access to workshops the drawing room, printmaking facilities, and the
Digital Design Hub
which is located next to the studio offering you experiences of engaging in finishing techniques from laser cutting, bookbinding, and foiling.
You’ll use high-specification iMacs latest versions of software used by the industry and be able to hire a range of hardware from our
Media Loan Hub
, including Wacom Cintiq tablets, and HD cameras.
Teaching Methods
Teaching
is delivered mainly through studio-based and experiential learning using project briefs. This is supported with tutorials, lectures, seminars, visiting speakers and visits to galleries and exhibitions.
You'll work with both local and national project partners on live project briefs and national competitions. Our students have worked with Derby Museum and Art Gallery, Ernest and Julio Gallo Wineries Europe. They have also responded to competition briefs from D&AD (Designers & Art Directors), Young Creatives Network, Penguin Student Design Awards and the Royal Society of Arts (RSA) Student Design Awards.
Assessment
is based on coursework, relevant to each module. This may include portfolios of artwork, exhibitions, sketchbooks, research and background material, essays, reports and presentations.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Richard Levesley
Programme Leader
Richard Levesley
Drawing is at the core of Richards practice. He is particularly interested in sketchbooks, gathering ideas exploring various drawing processes and illustrative outcomes. His research practice explores drawing, digital process and print...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
Offers will be made initially based on your application, including predicted grades and/or grades you have already achieved. You may be given the opportunity, within your offer letter, to submit a portfolio. If you submit a strong portfolio we will make you an unconditional offer, to reflect the quality of your work and your potential.
Additional entry requirements
Portfolio: Recommended -
view portfolio details
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to all resources in graphic design studio and related workshop areas (printmaking, digital print)
All software used on the course is available on the University computers in the dedicated studio spaces
The programme uses Adobe Creative Suite which is installed on all Macs in MS102 and MS012 at Markeaton Street and students are provided with an individual Adobe Creative Cloud subscription for home use
To support their professional and skills development, students are provided with a subscription to LinkedIn Learning which offers over 13,000 courses and tutorials, including professional accreditations, in a wide range of creative, business & technology disciplines
Materials (for drawing and group work related activities) are provided for set coursework tasks
Compulsory Study Visits and participation in University Degree Show
A programme of high profile visiting speakers from Industry
Additional access to wider University Arts’ facilities including equipment loan store and other facilities, such as digital print workshops
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Printing of design work - print bureau prices range from £0.65 - £55 depending on size and paper quality. However, a minimum expectation would be approx. £25 - £50 for printing these materials
Students should purchase a practice folder and an outcomes folder (Approx. £50 each)
A2/A3 Portfolio (£5 - £50)
USB Flash Drive (approx. £10 - £15 depending on brand and storage capacity)
A4 Sketchbook (approx. £10 each)
Optional costs not included in your fees
External hard drive (approx. £50 - £100 depending on brand and storage capacity)
No non curricular trips are currently included. If future events are of specific interest to the Graphic Design then we would publish these as extracurricular, non compulsory trips. UK Based from approx. £10 - £100 depending on event and distance and from Derby; International (European) approx. £250 - £600 depending on event location
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
As a graduate you could work in a design studio, freelance, art direction, editorial design, typography, branding, advertising, corporate identity, interactive media, signage, design consultancy or online design.
You have the opportunity to further enhance your skills by considering our
MA/MDes Design
.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Graphic Design with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Design MA/MDes