Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/hand-therapy-in-practice/

Hand Therapy in Practice - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Hand Therapy in Practice
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Hand Therapy in Practice
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
Module details
Module code
7OT523
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
April
Duration
11 weeks
Location
Online
Module description
About this module
This module runs online with five days of live teaching, and online activities, followed by an online assessment the following week. We advise students will require time off from work in order to attend the sessions. Please contact the Programme Leader for dates of the live teaching and assessment.
Who is this course for
Occupational therapy, physiotherapy
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Develop knowledge and practical skills in various aspects of practical hand therapy.
Demonstrate clinical reasoning for a variety of treatment techniques/interventions used in the specialist clinical field of hand therapy.
Critically evaluate the effectiveness of a practical hand therapy intervention.
Entry requirements
an undergraduate degree (at least 2:2) or a diploma in occupational therapy or physiotherapy, or an equivalent qualification;
an English Language GCSE grade C or equivalent;
You’ll also need to currently work in the clinical field of hand therapy.
Fees and funding
If you are funding your own study, the module price will be confirmed shortly.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
E:
lbr@derby.ac.uk
T:
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.