Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/public-health-social-care-courses/health-and-social-care-ba-hons/

Health and Social Care BA (Hons)  - Public Health and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Public Health and Social Care
Health and Social Care BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Health and Social Care
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
96
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
L590
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
Top
5
for satisfaction with teaching in Social Work
Guardian University Guide 2024
Top
15
for graduate prospects
Health Studies subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
Top
25
for student satisfaction
Social Work subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
100
%
of Students agreed that teaching staff are good at explaining things
BA (Hons) Health and Social Care - National Student Survey 2024
95
%
Overall Academic Support
BA (Hons) Health and Social Care - National Student Survey 2024
93
%
Overall Learning Resources
BA (Hons) Health and Social Care - National Student Survey 2024
Take your first steps towards a fulfilling future in health and social care. This degree will give you the skills, confidence and experience to make a positive difference to people’s lives and wellbeing.
Prepare for a career where you can plan and deliver health and social care services which are fit for the future
Put the theory you learn into practice, with work placements in different settings ­– from care homes to community projects
Join a course designed in partnership with experts from the sector, ensuring your studies are up to date and relevant
Draw on our strong professional links and benefit from guest lectures, fact-finding visits and networking opportunities
Be inspired by our friendly and supportive teaching staff who have a wealth of experience in health and social care
Make the most of our exceptional learning facilities
We’re proud to welcome applications from candidates with practice experience in youth work, health, social care and education. This is as part of our commitment to enable those from non-traditional backgrounds to be able to study as part of our commitment to widening participation.
Health and social care is all about supporting people – working flexibly, creatively and confidently to address the needs of individuals, families and communities. This highly practical course equips you for a career in a sector which offers immense personal satisfaction.
Meeting the challenge of change
Versatile, adaptable and skilled health and social care professionals are in demand like never before. At a time when people are living longer with increasingly complex needs and a growing number of services are provided in the community and at home, roles and practices within the sector are changing rapidly.
Our BA (Hons) Health and Social Care is designed in partnership with key service providers, commissioning organisations, service users and other stakeholders to reflect the latest developments within the profession.
The focus is on how we can enable and support vulnerable people to live independent, active and healthy lives, and how we can respond effectively to the needs of their families and carers.
You’ll cover the profession from a holistic standpoint, exploring policies and trends, social and psychological approaches, and critical issues in adult and children’s care.
Making a difference
This degree prepares you to make a positive impact on the way services are delivered in a variety of statutory, voluntary and independent organisations, working in areas ranging from family support and community mental health to residential care, social housing and refugee support.
Because such services are increasingly managed by multi-professional teams, we offer opportunities at each stage of your course for you to learn with, and from, students from other disciplines. This is really important in preparing you to work in more flexible ways after graduation. By learning to work together, you can help achieve the best outcomes for service users.
If you are already employed within the sector, the part-time route to the BA (Hons) qualification is an excellent option because you can fit your studies around your current role and achieve the qualifications you need for promotion to more senior positions.
Gain vital skills on placement
Not only will you gain a thorough understanding of policy and practice, you’ll also have exciting opportunities to apply that knowledge to real work situations.
Thanks to our enviable links across the sector, you will undertake two work placements as an essential part of your course. These will give you crucial experience in a range of settings – from statutory agencies to community projects. Some of our students share their experiences of their placements below.
'The placement allowed me to feel more confident going into a new work place and doing something new.' - Phil.
'The placement experience taught me how to adapt and develop learning  with adolescents who have a range of learning disabilities and needs. This has helped me build my confidence and assertiveness.'  - Hannah.
'I identified and overcame personal bias and discrimination that previous to the placement experience I didn't know I held.' - Sherice.
'The placement gave me the experience of working and being part of a community, making small changes and being able to be resilient around my own development.'  - Kate.
You’ll receive full support from our placements team and the senior lecturer for practice to ensure you make the most of this experience. A dedicated work-based mentor will also provide you with on-site guidance during your placement. Placement hours are subject to change.
A rich learning experience
There is the chance to take part in a vibrant programme of agency visits, high-profile international conferences, guest lectures and workshops where local stakeholders share best practice. These will provide a unique context to your learning, broaden your networks and put you at the heart of health and social care developments in our region.
Our students have even organised their own public debates and have taken part in Dragons’ Den-style events to pitch ideas for new social enterprises to industry experts.
Tailor your studies to your professional interests
We offer ample opportunities for you to investigate issues which particularly interest you or which reflect your career aspirations.
The Independent Study module in stage three of the course has seen students undertake research into wide-ranging subjects such as teenage pregnancies, privacy in nursing homes, whistleblowing situations, sex and relationship education, integration for refugees, barriers to employment for ex-offenders, public perceptions of anorexia nervosa, male victims of domestic violence, the links between homelessness and mental illness, and services to ensure older people have a voice.
Outstanding learning facilities
You can take this course at our
Derby Campus
which offer outstanding
learning environments
including clinical skills suites built to professional standards, with replica wards, counselling rooms and treatment rooms fully equipped with the latest clinical resources.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You’ll learn through a variety of methods including lectures, small group discussions, workshop, seminars, presentations, tutorials and placements.
We regard placements as critical to your future career success, enhancing your learning, building your confidence and broadening your perspectives. They enable you to apply theory to practice and give you a flavour of the different working environments in which you could pursue your career.
Throughout the degree, you’ll have one-to-one support from a personal tutor who will provide advice and guidance on your personal and professional development.
How you are assessed
There are no exams. Assessments are wide-ranging, flexible and innovative so you can align them to your own areas of interest. They could take the form of written assignments, reports, posters, presentations, observation of practice and portfolios. All the projects on which you are assessed will be topical and reflect current working practices.
Who you will meet
Our high-calibre teaching team is made up of academically and professionally qualified health and social care experts with vast experience across the sector. Many are still involved in professional practice. They are friendly, enthusiastic and approachable, giving you guidance throughout your studies so that you achieve your ambitions.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
96
A Level
CCC
T Level
Pass (C and above)
BTEC
MMM
GCSE
GCSE English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
Additional entry requirements
An
Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service certificate
cleared by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this once you have applied
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
DBS Check
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Travel expenses to placements, the student pays the first £5 of travel costs
Optional costs not included in your fees
Textbooks to supplement anything available through the library
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Our emphasis is on nurturing versatile and flexible health and social care professionals who are not restricted by boundaries and who can work in multi-professional teams. This degree equips you for rewarding roles in areas such as:
Local authority, NHS and multi-agency teams working with children, young people and adults
Homelessness and social housing services
Refugee and asylum-seeker support agencies
Appropriate adult and advocacy work
Health promotion services
Community mental health teams
Intensive family support teams
Residential and nursing care management
Commissioning and care management teams
Care co-ordinator management.
Our graduates are now carving out successful careers in organisations across the independent, statutory and voluntary sectors. Some have chosen to move directly into working with vulnerable people within the NHS, adult and children’s social care services, while others have progressed into strategic management and leadership positions to develop improved services for individuals, families and communities.
The course will also give you a firm foundation of knowledge if you would like to specialise in areas such as social work, nursing, teaching and therapies in future.
Ongoing careers support
As part of the course, you will develop the professional and inter-personal skills which employers are seeking, such as problem solving, communication, presentation, collaboration and reflection. We also offer a suite of bespoke sessions across all stages on themes such as job seeking, applications and interview techniques.
Take your studies to the next level
The BA (Hons) Health and Social Care can pave the way to postgraduate study, including our:
MA Social Work
MSc Integrative Counselling and Psychotherapy (incorporating PG Cert/PG Dip) (BACP Accredited)
MSc Diagnostic Radiography (Pre-Registration)
MA Education
MSc Nursing (Adult) with NMC registration
MSc Nursing (Mental Health) with NMC registration
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Part-time
Other courses you might like
Nursing (Adult) BSc (Hons)
Nursing (Mental Health) BSc (Hons)
Applied Social Work BA (Hons)
Child and Family Health and Wellbeing BSc (Hons)
Chat to our students
−