Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/health-social-community-work-courses/health-and-social-care-studies-certificate-of-credit-online/

Health and Social Care Studies Certificate of Credit - Health, Social and Community Work - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Health, Social and Community Work
Health and Social Care Studies Certificate of Credit
Apply now
Apply now
Undergraduate Course
Health and Social Care Studies Certificate of Credit
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 10 weeks
UK fee
£875
(2024/25)
‡
International fee
£875
(2024/25)
‡
Start dates
September, January, May
Location
Online
This course consists of a single 20 credit module, ‘Professional Development in Health and Social Care’ and is the first step to ensuring you have the transferable skills needed to move forward in your role as a health and social care professional.
Our certificate of Credit in Health and Social Care Studies aims to widen the participation of Health and Social Care courses to practitioners who may not have the level of experience of academic study that is required for UK degrees. It is ideal for those who are looking to take the next step in health and social care, return to study or for those who may need to refresh their academic skills to go onto acquire the relevant qualifications within their role.
Health and social care organisations and professionals rely on particular research methods and techniques in order to cope with the changing landscape. Understanding and applying evidence is now an essential skill of health and social care practice and this module aims to develop your skills for research, including identifying a research question, analysing information, reviewing literature, collecting and analysing data and presenting the main findings in professional and concise manner, using appropriate technology.
NMC revalidation and CPD
If you are going through NMC Revalidation this year you’ll also be aware that you need to complete 35 hours of continuous professional development (CPD) which needs to include 20 hours of participatory learning. Our online course counts as participatory learning and will help you to meet the requirements for re-registration. It is an ideal way to top-up your academic skills in theory, digital literacy, critical thinking and reflection, gaining 20 university credits that will count towards your CPD and future studies. It will also enable you to become an effective practitioner in today’s complex health and social care environment through undertaking a range of experiential exercises, self-assessment techniques; organisational analysis and structured discussion.
Enhancing your professional development plan
This course will also allow you to integrate personal development planning (PDP) into your workload. Opportunities throughout the course for PDP are included through the application of learning materials to current practice within health and social care as well as the use of critical reflection within modules. This module will incorporate a variety of skills that will enable you to develop critical evaluation, appraisal and reflection skills in relation to your clinical and evidence based practice. This content will be contextualised and enhanced, allowing you to take the skills forward into clinical and academic practice.
What you will study
Through studying this course you will be able to:
analyse knowledge and understanding required for successful reflective and academic practice
enhance your intellectual skills through personal study skills and academic writing
engage in reflection on practice, reflective of contemporary professional practice
develop your transferable skills through using information technology effectively and efficiently to engage with the evidence-based practice
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
Pace of study
We recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete one 20-credit module over a 10-week trimester.
There will be 1/2 virtual classrooms over the 10 week trimester and if you are unable to attend you will be able to download the session to view in your own time.
Assessment method
This course is assessed through 100% coursework with a range of methods, such as essays, research reports, presentations, group work and practical reports.
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Get a taste of the course content
Our Health and Social Care Certificate of Credit course taster will give you an idea of how online learning works. It includes a selection of content from a course module so you can see what some of our learning material looks like.
You will need to complete a short form to access the course taster.
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Entry requirements
You will need:
You will need to be working within a health or social care environment. This can be either within a paid or voluntary capacity.
Evidence of previous study at level 4 or equivalent in the area of health and social care or equivalent experience.
GCSE English grade C or above.
English Language Qualifications
Applicants whose first language is not English or who have not studied in an English-speaking institution, will need:
IELTS (International English Language Testing System) 6.0
Qualification evidence awarded in your country
Transcripts of all relevant education/training
Find out more about our English language requirements
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£875
1
£875
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£925
1
£925
About your fees
Prices are correct for the year of entry shown. These are subject to annual increase in subsequent academic years.
Flexible payment plan available
Pay monthly
for the course that you are studying
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Written reference supplied on headed paper from either a manager, supervisor, tutor or teacher
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Application deadlines
All of our online courses have set start dates throughout the year. We require time to review your application and get back to you with a response before your course starts. Take a look at
information regarding applying for an online course
to see full details of deadlines and term dates.
Careers
Whilst undertaking this programme you will already be employed in a variety of health and social care settings. This programme will support you to progress potentially into supervisory or management positions.
It will also help to prepare you for further study on our health and social care online programmes, such as Health and Social Care Diploma of Higher Education,
BSc (Hons) Nursing Studies (Top-up)
and
BSc (Hons) Integrative Health and Social Care (Top-up)
.
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
Integrative Health and Social Care (Top-Up) BSc (Hons)
Online short courses