Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/psychology-courses/health-psychology-msc/

Health Psychology MSc - Psychology - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Psychology
Health Psychology MSc
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Health Psychology
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
The best bits
Learn from lecturers at the forefront of psychological research
Develop the foundational skills that underpin clinical and professional practice in health psychology
Understand the application of health psychology to roles within the NHS, public, private and charity sectors
Access inter-professional learning opportunities across the College of Health, Psychology and Social Care
Network with the wider health psychology community including the opportunity to attend the Midlands Health Psychology Network conference
100
%
of our students were satisfied with the quality of the course
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2023
100
%
of our students agreed that staff are enthusiastic about what they teach
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2023
100
%
of our students agreed that the course has enhanced their academic ability
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2023
If you prefer, you can also study the
MSc Health Psychology
via our online provision.
Why study Health Psychology at Derby?
Studying Health Psychology at Derby means you will be taught by our team of research-active psychologists, who have expert knowledge of health psychology theory, practice and research. As well as delving into the theoretical underpinnings of health psychology, you'll also be exploring the issues faced by today's health psychology professionals. Their comprehensive knowledge and professional experience will really help you learn, and their strong research profile means that you'll be part of a vibrant department at the forefront of developments in health psychology.
The team have recently been involved in the following areas of work, including published work:
"We All Need Purpose and Reason to Be Here.": A Qualitative Investigation of How Members of Alcoholics Anonymous with Long-term Recovery Experience Aging
The Derby Packed Lunch Trial; using behavioural insights to reduce primary school children’s sugar consumption
What is the role of stress cardiovascular reactivity in health behaviour change?
Systematic Review of Self-Monitoring of Blood Glucose in Patients With Type 2 Diabetes
Atrial fibrillation, quality of life and distress: a cluster analysis of cognitive and behavioural responses
You will also have the opportunity to conduct your own research, which the teaching team will support you to have published where appropriate.
The teaching team are engaged in a range of research work, which you are welcome to get involved with. We actively encourage you to take part in a range of research activities if you are interested.
Accreditation
Study a course that provides Stage One training in Health Psychology and is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS) for those who already hold Graduate Basis for Chartered membership (GBC).
Both GBC and Stage One training are prerequisites for entry onto Stage Two of training to become a practitioner Health Psychologist.
Completion of Stage One and Stage Two training in Health Psychology will provide:
eligibility for Chartered Psychologist status with the British Psychologist Society
eligibility to register with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) as a practitioner Health Psychologist
If you don't already hold a GBC, it is possible to gain this by completing a BPS-accredited conversion programme before or after completing this programme.
Become part of the wider Health Psychology Community
Our lecturers have brilliant professional links throughout the Health Psychology community, including the Health Psychology Training Committee, Division of Health Psychology and other organisations. They will encourage you to network and get involved with other organisations outside of the University of Derby. These valuable networking sessions could really help you progress in your career and help you stay current with what is happening in the Health Psychology landscape.
Two students are committee members of the Health Psychology Trainee Network Conversation Cafes. These are UK-wide networking opportunities for students on BPS-accredited stage one health psychology programmes. Find out more by following HPTN on Twitter.
Discover the HPTN on Twitter
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You’ll study modules such as:
Modules
Psychology of Health and Wellbeing -
This module aims to provide you with a broad knowledge-base of the role of psychology in the experience of health, and wellbeing in relation to the historical, social and political context of health psychology and health services policy
Health Promotion and Behaviour Change
- This module aims to provide you with an understanding of a range of factors that influence health behaviour and the role of psychology in health promotion and behaviour change
Psychology of Illness
- Within health psychology it is essential to understand the links between psychological factors, physiological mechanisms, and behaviour in the onset and progression of illness.  It is also essential to understand the experience of symptoms and symptom response in the context of healthcare utilisation, and how the experience of healthcare and treatment impacts a broad range of patient outcomes. This module aims to provide students with a broad knowledge base in these areas
Living with Long Term Conditions
-
The aim of this module is to provide students with a critical awareness of the role of psychology in the experience and management of long term conditions for individuals living with long term conditions and their wider social networks (e.g. family and friends)
Advanced Psychological Research Methods in Context
- The aim of this module is to provide you with advanced knowledge and skills related to quantitative and qualitative research methods within the context of applied psychology
Clinical and Professional Skills for Practitioner Psychologists
- The aim of this module is to support your personal and professional development, and enable you to reflect on, and plan for, your own development as a trainee health psychologist and to support you accessing relevant opportunities during and on completion of the programme
Empirical Research Project
- It is intrinsic to the award of MSc that you present evidence of your capacity to conduct a substantial piece of independent empirical research that builds clearly upon your prior learning and which draws upon appropriate methodologies. The aim of this module is to allow you to identify a research issue, formulate pertinent research questions and explore these questions through the application of contemporary psychological methodologies and appropriate data analysis and dissemination methods
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You will be taught by a dedicated team of registered and/or chartered, research-active psychologists who have expert knowledge of health psychology theory, practice, and research. As part of the course, you’ll undertake your own research project, specialising in an area of health psychology that particularly interests you and that is relevant to your career aspirations where possible.
Our MSc Health Psychology combines research-led teaching with an innovative portfolio of applied assessments to ensure you develop both the knowledge and transferrable skills necessary for progression towards Stage Two training or directly into employment. Our focus on professional skills and employability through post-programme planning is a key feature of the course.
If you study this course on campus full-time, you’ll attend the University two days a week. If you choose to study part-time, you’ll attend one day a week.
Assessment
The programme embeds a focus on professional skills and employability and assessments across the programme support this.  Assessments are applied in nature, are diverse in format and may include:
oral presentations
intervention reports
systematic review
research project report(s)
reflective practice portfolio
Who you'll meet
You will be taught by an established academic team who are active in research and specialists in their field including:
Dr Amy Baraniak
Dr Brenda Caldwell-Phillips
Professor James Elander
Dr Daniel Gaffiero
Dr Fiona Holland
Paul Staples
Dr Vicki Staples
Professor David Sheffield
Who will teach you
Dr Vicki Staples
Programme Leader
Dr Vicki Staples
Vicki is a Senior Lecturer in Health Psychology and the programme director of the MSc Health Psychology Programme. She is a Chartered Psychologist and an Associate Fellow of the British Psychological Society.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
Entry requirements for UK students:
BSc (Hons) Psychology qualification that confers Graduate Basis for Chartership (GBC) with the BPS.  Applicants should usually have a 2:1 or above, although we will consider applicants with a 2:2 where there is relevant experience and subject to a satisfactory interview. We will also consider applicants with closely aligned degree qualifications where there is relevant experience.
Entry requirements for EU/international students:
As above (or the equivalent international qualifications). If English is not your first language, you will need to hold IELTS 6.5 in all areas.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to essential software (SPSS and NVivo)
Access to any materials necessary for specific areas of health psychology such as questionnaires and psychometric tests
Up to 20 inter-library loans per year
Midlands Health Psychology Network (MHPN) conference registration fee, including annual membership
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
There are no mandatory costs not included your fees
Optional costs not included in your fees
You may wish to purchase optional textbooks or e-books to support your studies - costs for these are dependent on your choice
Printing costs of course materials if hard copy is desired - approximate cost is 5p per sheet
British Psychological Society membership fee - approximate cost is £65 for graduate membership and £35 for graduate member postgraduate student
Division of Health Psychology subscription - approximate cost is £9 for BPS members
Transport/travel to the MHPN conference - approximate cost is £25
Any non-essential trips such as those not related to the course
If needed, an additional 20 inter-library loans per year - approximate cost is £2 each
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
Health psychology specialists work in a range of settings across the NHS, industry and local authorities as well as in the voluntary sector and academia. A number of our graduates have gone on to deliver services in health promotion, public health, mental health and chronic illness management. There are also opportunities to enter other graduate professions, such as education and management.
Some of our students have gone on to stage two postgraduate training to practise as registered health psychologists whilst others have secured funded PhDs in health psychology-related areas. Others have used the MSc to gain places on clinical psychology training programmes or to access training in areas including Cognitive Behavioural Therapy and Increasing Access to Psychological Treatment services.
Find out more about the range of careers available
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Other courses you might like
Behaviour Change (incorporating PG Dip/PG Cert) MSc
Forensic Psychology MSc
Psychology MRes
Health Psychology MSc