Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/biomedical-science-human-biology-courses/human-biology-bsc-hons/

Human Biology BSc (Hons)  - Biomedical Science and Human Biology - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Biomedical Science and Human Biology
Human Biology BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Human Biology
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years,  Part-time: 6 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
104
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
C101
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
If you’d like a scientific career where you can focus on improving people’s health and wellbeing, our BSc (Hons) Human Biology course is the ideal starting point.
Accredited by the
Royal Society of Biology
, this course demonstrates quality and sets a high professional standard
Build up-to-date bioscience skills which allow you to respond to national and international priorities, and are important for careers in medical research, the NHS, health charities and biomedical industries
Develop your understanding of infectious and genetic diseases, as well as the impact that lifestyle choices have on health
Tailor your course to your own interests by choosing from a broad selection of specialist modules in bioscience, psychology and sport science
Opportunities for placements and internships with organisations like the Leukaemia Research Foundation and Royal Derby Hospital
Strengthen your employability through work placements, internships and live projects where you can assist in the University’s human health research – all opportunities which are offered on a competitive basis
Learn from a research-active teaching team
92
%
of students agreed that staff are good at explaining things
BSc (Hons) Human Biology - National Student Survey 2024
Human Biology at Derby
If you aspire to a scientific career focused on improving people's health and wellbeing, this degree is an ideal starting point. Studying Human Biology places you at the forefront of advances in areas like medicine, sports science, physiology and mental health.
Ageing is inevitable - but healthy ageing is achievable. With people living longer and the population getting older, effective approaches to healthy ageing have never been more important, as reflected in global initiatives, like the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals where 'Good Health and Wellbeing' is highlighted as a priority. By studying with us, you will address some of the most pressing health concerns facing today's society, by investigating the cause, effect and treatment of human disease and illness.
This course delivers a solid grounding in human physiology and anatomy, biochemistry, genetics and medical microbiology, helping you understand the basis of human disease, diagnosis and treatment. You'll also explore factors which impact health such as physical activity, smoking, air pollution, infectious disease, and alcohol/drug misuse, plus the social and economic changes and government policies transforming global public health.
Professional and career development skills are embedded throughout our courses. You'll have the opportunity to visit different health care and laboratory environments and attend guest lectures from leading professionals. Find out more from our academics and students in the below video.
Accredited course
Our accreditation from the
Royal Society of Biology (RSB)
follows an independent and rigorous assessment, ensuring that the degree provides a solid academic foundation in biological knowledge, key technical abilities, and transferrable skills.
This means that, when you graduate, you will meet the requirements for Associate Membership of the Society (AMSB), and after appropriate professional experience you can then apply for full membership, which is widely recognised throughout the industry and by potential employers.
View Human Biology at the University of Derby video transcript
Expert teaching
You'll benefit from working with lecturers who have a wealth of experience in their chosen profession, so you're getting industry relevant teaching to help you shine in your chosen career. Many are also involved in research, bringing the latest theories into the classroom.
The diversity of research projects under way is vast – covering issues such as:
The role of the Human Papillomavirus in the development of head and neck cancers
Antibiotic resistance bacteria in healthy individuals
Mechanisms and cardiovascular effects of anti-angiogenic drugs
Discovery and development of biomarkers and therapeutic targets in age-related diseases
Links between type 2 diabetes mellitus and obesity
Identification of biomarkers for early diagnosis of diseases, prognosis or therapeutic monitoring using metabolomics and lipidomics at our
F
acility for OMIC Research in Metabolism (FORM)
Exploring how autophagy, a mechanism by which cells maintain a healthy internal environment by removing waste and cellular debris, is genetically modulated
You could apply to help with the team’s research projects, which will deepen your understanding and give you an ideal preparation for your future career.
"Every one of my lecturers inspired me with their passion for the subject and their desire for students to question them. They want you to do well and helped whenever I asked."
Claire Storer, BSc (Hons) Human Biology graduate
Specialist facilities
Our facilities include a molecular biology laboratory, class ll microbiology laboratory and tissue culture facilities. We provide modern instrumentation and specialist containment facilities for the growth and manipulation of bacteria and viruses, as well as the sequencing and characterisation of DNA.
We have also opened a student research laboratory which gives you a dedicated space throughout your studies.
You will be able to use a range of analytical and biomedical equipment including:
Facility for Omics Research in Metabolism (FORM)
:
We have recently secured £850k of capital funding to establish this new facility. This ultra-modern, innovative research facility will provide training in the new and emerging fields of genomics, transcriptomics and proteomics
Scanning Electron Microscope
: We
mainly use this for medical research, exploring everything from human/animal tissue infrastructure to bacteria and viruses. It's also useful in vaccination testing.
High-Performance Liquid Chromatography
: This has a variety of uses including quantifying plasma levels of drugs and their metabolites.
It is also used in the measurement of biogenic substances that help in diagnosis.
Gas Chromatography
: We use this for various medical activities, including bioanalysis of body fluids, detecting pollutants and metabolites in serum, and for fatty acid profiling in microbes.
Fluorescent Microscope
:
You may use this
to understand the cellular ultra-structure or sub cellular organelles.
Atomic Absorption Spectrometry
: Used to detect minute concentrations of toxic substances in blood.
Ion Chromatography
: Used to determine many ions and substances in clinical and pharmaceutical samples.
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR)
: Used to identify molecules and
for
diagnostic purposes.
We also have new molecular and cellular biology laboratories. These will help us conduct in vitro cell/tissue culture based investigations, so we can understand the pathophysiology and establish effect treatment strategies against cancer, age-related disorders (such as dementia), diabetes, pre-eclampsia and more.
New Bioscience Superlab
The University of Derby has been awarded £5.8 million from the Office for Students (OfS) to develop a new technology enhanced Bioscience Superlab and Research Lab with an opening date in 2025.
Find out more about the Superlab and Research Lab
Find out more about the Superlab and Research Lab
Invaluable placement opportunities
You can apply to work in industry or undertake an internship between stages two and three of the course. This not only helps to prepare you for your final year of studies, but also provides an opportunity to add solid experience to your CV, boosting your future prospects. Previously, our students have secured roles at the Leukaemia Research Foundation in London, Royal Derby Hospital and local pharmacies.
Human Biology: moving towards a career in cancer research
A research internship looking at ovarian cancer helped Human Biology student, Monica Erdos, take a big step towards meeting her career goal of working in cancer research.
Find out more
Find out more
Uncovering the link between HPV and head and neck cancer
Our scientists have developed a new screening method that detects human papillomavirus (HPV) in the mouth. They are now using this method to gain a better understanding of how HPV causes head and neck cancer.
Read more
Read more
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You’ll learn through lectures, seminars, tutorials, and e-learning, supported by hands-on laboratory practicals.
Assessment
No single assessment style suits everyone, so we take a diverse approach across the different modules. You’re assessed using a range of written assignments (including data analysis, portfolios, and practical reports) and computer-based assessments. Coursework includes essays, experimental reports (based on laboratory work), case studies, reflective portfolios, posters and oral presentations. In some modules, group work is assessed.
At Level 6 students are expected to be able to demonstrate their knowledge, understanding, and application of the original work generated within their Research Project by submission of a thesis, and through an oral/poster presentation to a lay audience.
Tailor your degree
You can adapt your studies to suit your chosen career path while gaining a greater understanding of how the body functions. There is a wide range of optional modules to choose from including bioscience, sport science and psychology to enable you to focus on areas that interest you most. In your final year, you’ll undertake an in-depth research project into a human health theme which matches your interests and aspirations.
Broaden your perspectives
We’re committed to your professional and career development. Guest speakers will add an extra dimension to your learning experience. We also have a vibrant Human Biology Society, established and run by students, which organises monthly guest lectures, for example, the inaugural lecture covered research into the environmental health conditions in the Calais refugee camps.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Opeyemi Stella  Ademowo
Programme Leader
Dr Opeyemi Stella  Ademowo
As a Senior lecturer in Biomedical Science, Dr Ademowo teaches cell and molecular biology-related modules. Her research is focused on understanding ageing and discovering novel biomarkers of ageing to provide information on the ageing ...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
104
A Level
BCC (At least a grade C in either Biology, Human Biology or Chemistry (or equivalent qualification))
T Level
Merit in Science
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6. Must include passes in compulsory Level 3 subjects
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
You will receive goggles and a laboratory coat
All equipment and consumables needed for your experimental/ fieldwork are provided by the University. This is subject to consumables being costed for the Independent Study and approved by your programme leader
Free membership of the Royal Society of Biology for a year after graduation
If a DBS check is needed for the purposes of a module or programme related work placement, this is included in your fee if done via the University
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Most assignments are submitted through an online.  However, you are expected to produce a poster which would cost around £15
Optional costs not included in your fees
Lots of e-books are available for free through the University Library, however you may wish to purchase a hard copy of these at your own expense. Recommended textbooks - approximate cost is ¬£100
If a DBS check is needed for the purposes of a module or programme related work placement. Summer research internships offered on a competitive basis to second year students. You can also take a work placement credit-bearing module at Level 6, though you will need to find your own placement
Travel to work experience/placements - cost is dependent on your placement venue of choice
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Studying Human Biology equips you with highly relevant and up-to-date skills that are important for careers in the NHS, health charities, medical research and biomedical industries, in roles such as:
Research/Laboratory Assistant, Technician or Associate
NHS Clinical Scientist​
Medical Professional​
Physiotherapist/Sports Trainer Performance Counselling
Pharmaceutical/Medical Sales
Lecturer​/Teacher
Scientific Writer​
Scientific/Non-Scientific Consultancy
Public Health Service​
Clinical Trials Co-ordinator
Human Resources
Food Technology
Biosafety
Health Charities
Marketing
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Human Biology with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Biomedical Science BSc (Hons)
Biomedical Science with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Biology BSc (Hons)
Biology with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Chat to our students
−