Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/human-resource-management-courses/human-resource-management-msc/

Human Resource Management MSc - Human Resource Management - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Human Resource Management
Human Resource Management MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Human Resource Management
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year (Masters only),  Part-time: 2 years (Masters and top-up)
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, January
Location
Derby Campus
The highlights
Gain vital career development skills and improve your professional status on a course which paves the way for Associate membership of the
Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development
(CIPD) and is also a stepping stone to Chartered Membership
Gain the specialist knowledge, confidence and professional standing you need to apply for leadership and management roles in HRM
Build your confidence and skills in developing HRM strategies, policies, procedures and change programmes
Tailor your assignments and reports to your own workplace, for immediate value and impact
Gain either a
Postgraduate Diploma
by completing stages one and two, or a full Masters qualification by completing stage three as well (an independent study)
Top up your existing qualifications in HRM or HRD to a full masters degree with just one year of flexible part-time study.
100
%
overall satisfaction - MSc Human Resource Management
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
Accelerate your career development
This course puts you on the fast track to a qualification which raises your professional standing and improves your career prospects. It fully prepares you to meet the CPD requirements of the HR profession.
If you already have a Postgraduate Diploma in HRM or HRD – or a CIPD Advanced Level Diploma – you can top these qualifications up to the full MSc award in just a year.
You may also be interested in our
Postgraduate Diploma in Human Resource Management
which is ideal both for specialist HR practitioners and for general managers who would like to improve their portfolio of skills.
HRM from a business perspective
This MSc in Human Resource Management is suitable for both specialist HR practitioners and for general managers who would like to improve their HRM skills.
Our emphasis is on how HR strategies and decisions have an important and lasting impact on the performance of organisations, whatever their size, type and sector. We set the HRM specialism firmly within the broader field of business, management and corporate strategy.
You’ll gain a deeper knowledge and understanding of organisations, how they are managed and the external challenges they face. We draw on the latest thinking, pioneering research and fascinating case studies, including looking at HRM in an international context.
Professionally approved
One key benefit of this postgraduate course is that it's a stepping stone towards
Chartered Membership of the CIPD
. This can advance your career further still — opening doors to promotion, a higher salary and an increased range of job opportunities.
From the start of the course you will join the CIPD and gain full access to the restricted member areas of its website and to local branch network events — all of this will support your studies.
As long as you achieve the Postgraduate Diploma stage of this degree, you will have completed the 'knowledge' criteria requirements for Advanced CIPD membership and you will automatically gain Associate status of the CIPD. When you can also demonstrate evidence of the necessary 'activity' and 'behaviour' criteria, you will be ready to apply for Chartered Membership status.
During your studies, we’ll give you help and guidance to make your online application for the appropriate CIPD membership level.
Deliver genuine business impact
All your assignments and reports reflect real-world scenarios and are usually based on your own workplace practice and experiences. By investigating current business issues from a HRM perspective, you can add substantial value to your organisation as you work towards your qualifications.
At stage three (masters level), you will undertake a research project within the workplace that is directly relevant to your role and the goals of your employer. Recent independent study projects have covered areas such as talent management, employee engagement, the evaluation of learning and training, organisational change, HR analytics and knowledge management.
Build your networks
As well as using our own in-house expertise to teach you, we invite figures from industry to come in and share their knowledge with you. For example, we run ‘expert witness’ sessions where you can question senior HR managers about their careers. You’ll also be invited to masterclasses and guest lectures delivered by influential thinkers, such as our Visiting Professors in HRM, Dr Linda Holbeche and Professor Lynette Harris.
As well as our national links with CIPD, we work closely with the Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire branch, which has over 3,000 members from a wide range of organisations. This branch holds events at the University, which you can attend, enabling you to make new contacts in a professional forum. You’ll hear first-hand what happens at the sharp end of the HR business — from the challenges of identifying talent to how it feels to attend a tribunal.
Chart your career path
Career development planning is at the heart of this course and you will be fully prepared to meet the continuing professional development (CPD) requirements of your profession. From the outset, you will reflect on your experience, practice, ambitions and skills gaps to create a clear route to future success. You will be allocated a personal tutor who will help you develop your critical self-analysis skills and build your professional identity.
Diverse and supportive
You will be inspired by our expert lecturers with wide-ranging experience of HRM. They have designed the course to be intellectually challenging but offer support and guidance all the way to help you excel.
This MSc attracts a diverse mix of students — established and aspiring HR practitioners from different age groups and from different roles across the public, private and charitable sectors.
The tutors were incredibly knowledgeable and most had real life experience of working in industry, which was really important to us as a group of working professionals.
Sarah Bell
MSc Human Resource Management
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
The course is made up of three stages – Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma and MSc.
To complete the MSc Human Resource Management, you'll study modules such as:
Postgraduate Certificate
You’ll be introduced to the study of HR and gain an understanding of concepts, ideas and competences relating to vocational aspects of the discipline.
You’ll study modules such as:
Developing Professional Practice -
This module equips you with a set of analytical tools and techniques to enhance your professional development, personal effectiveness and credibility at work. With a strong focus on how to add business value to your organisation, it covers areas such as leadership, critical thinking and decision-making, managing financial information and budgets, team working and interpersonal skills, resolving conflicts, influencing and coaching.
Human Resource Management in an International Context -
This module will deepen your understanding of the external, internal, business and managerial contexts of different organisations, including the impact of internationalisation and globalisation. You’ll explore the constraints within which HR practitioners work and how they make appropriate choices aligned with the objectives of their organisation.
Leading, Managing and Developing People -
You’ll evaluate major contemporary research and debates in HRM, including how HR practices influence business outcomes and how the value of the HR function can be measured. Covering issues of leadership, professionalism and ethics, this module looks at HRM developments in different sectors and different forms of organisations and enterprises. You’ll consider themes such as change management, flexible working initiatives, motivation and engagement within the workplace, the importance of the line manager role and the increasing emphasis on team working within organisations.
Postgraduate Diploma
You’ll build on the foundation of knowledge you gained at the Postgraduate Certificate stage by studying these modules:
International Resourcing and Talent Development
- The growth of human capital has been identified as a key driver of competitive advantage for organisations. On this module, you’ll examine a range of talent management strategies to attract, identify, develop, engage, retain and deploy individuals with high potential. You’ll look at how talent can be fostered through learning and development interventions and how to evaluate the impact of such interventions on the ‘bottom line’.
Advanced Diversity and Inclusion -
The aim of this module is to explore strategic workplace diversity and inclusion in terms of communication and training, addressing workplace behaviour and analysis of trends. It focuses on historical and the present-day role of line managers and other stakeholders in promoting a fair workplace culture key to managing workplace effectiveness. Through the lens of UK legislation, and international equivalents, this module also covers how strategic actions and decisions go beyond legal compliance as it focuses on the well-being and engagement of the workforce and the effects of inequality and segregation.
Strategic Employment Relations
- This module aims to focus on different perspectives of employment relations, power, authority and the cooperation and conflict that varies between workplaces. The role that institutions beyond the workplace play in shaping people management policy and practice within organisations will be explored, including legal, ethical, and moral approaches to problem resolution. In addition, students will understand how people professionals work with employees and trade unions to mitigate organisational risks.
MSc
Independent Study: Research Methods (20 credits)
Independent Study: Dissertation (40 credits)
You can explore a theme that particularly interests you, an area in which you see your career developing, or an aspect of your current job role which your studies will benefit.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You will develop your knowledge through:
taught lectures
case studies
role play
debating
student presentations
enquiry-based learning
problem-solving activities
a significant research project (independent study/dissertation).
At every stage of the programme you are encouraged to apply your learning to work-based scenarios so that you can make an immediate business impact. We will challenge your ways of thinking and behaving as you seek solutions to complex business problems.
This programme is approved by the CIPD so if their Professional Standards and programmes change, this MSc may also need to change.
How you are assessed
For each module, you will be assessed by coursework, scenario or work based assignments. At stage three (masters), you will be assessed by your independent study.
Entry requirements
You'll usually need:
A degree of at least a 2:2, or equivalent
If English is not your first language, you will also need IELTS 6.5 with 5.5 in each skill area
Relevant work experience
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Optional costs not included in your fees
CIPD membership fees
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Full-time
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
This MSc can help you progress towards the higher levels of HR management, but because people are a vital component of any organisation, it can also help you excel in more general management roles. Its approval by the CIPD means it's well-regarded by employers, and its content will ensure you leave as a forward-thinking practitioner with high levels of professionalism and a thorough grasp of modern strategic practice.
After completing this course, most of our students go on to gain promotions or secure more senior roles in other organisations. Our graduates now work across the world in HR management and director positions for public, private and not-for-profit organisations, including Boots, the NHS, Rolls-Royce, Toyota and local authorities.
Wherever your career takes you, we equip you with some key transferable skills that will be of value in any professional role. These include: leadership, teamworking, networking, communication, and the ability to present and justify intellectually rigorous arguments. We also develop your critical self-analysis and reflective practice skills, which will support lifelong learning and encourage you to continuously grow and develop throughout your career.
Ongoing careers support
Our support continues beyond graduation. You are entitled to further help and guidance from the
Careers and Employment Service
for up to three years after leaving the University.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Chat to our students
−