Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/radiography-courses/image-reporting-pg-cert/

Image Reporting PG Cert - Radiography - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Radiography
Image Reporting PG Cert
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Image Reporting
PG Cert
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Part-time: 1 year
UK fee
£900 per 20 credits
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
This course will enhance and develop your image interpretation skills and support you into an independent reporting role
This innovative programme incorporates the four pillars of advanced practise, ensuring that as well as Expert Clinical Practice you will have a solid foundation in Education, Research and Leadership and Management
Enhance your critical thinking, enquiry and research skills using our state of the art facilities in our Clinical Skills Suite which includes a diagnostic imaging suite with PACS facilities
Address a local and national need to improve reporting turn-around times thus improving the patient experience and patient outcomes
Engage with an enthusiastic, experienced teaching team, who remain clinically active and are experts in their fields
This innovative programme of study incorporates keynote lectures, peer-led seminars and assessments with real-world application.
This programme provides the educational structure to gain the knowledge and skills required to undertake an independent reporting role. It works together with the workplace to develop your independent reporting skills.
This programme is unique in that it incorporates all four pillars of advanced practice (Expert Clinical Practice, Education, Research and Leadership and management) into the module and assessment content. Therefore providing a solid foundation for students to build upon in order to fulfil the requirements of an advanced practice role.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You may choose between Appendicular, Axial or Chest reporting.
You will study one core common module titled 'Fundamental Principles of Image Reporting', topics include:
The fundamental principles of producing clinical image reports - terminology, phraseology and structure
Ethical and legal implications of advanced practice with particular focus on the reporting on clinical images
The core functions required to achieve and maintain advanced practitioner status
Tools, methods and considerations for quality improvement in healthcare
Theory of teaching and mentoring, relevant to clinical practice
The importance of robust audit and/or peer review systems
The principles of leadership theories and application to practice
Review of anatomy, physiology and pathological processes associated with reporting of the appendicular/axial skeleton or chest
The reporting environment and quality assurance
Application of radiation safety principles to image reporting
Advanced communication skills, for example undertaking difficult conversations with patients, inter-professional discourse, principles of transactional analysis and coaching
You will also study a 40 credit module specific to your area of reporting, these modules have several common features (the assessment methods are the same) however your lecturer and module focus will be specific to your area of reporting, ie appendicular skeleton.
Topics include:
Anatomy of the appendicular skeleton
or
axial skeleton
or
chest including normal radiological appearances
Clinical indications for radiological investigations of the appendicular
or
axial skeleton
or
chest including a range of imaging modalities
Fractures and pathology of the appendicular
or
axial skeleton
or
chest, including pathophysiological processes
Writing reports for radiographic images of the appendicular skeleton
Develop and understanding of various patient pathways and the impact of a radiological report on these pathways
Practice teaching skills and receive expert feedback
Respond to knowledge gaps identified by yourself and your peers
Undertake audit of your own work and peer review others
This module will conclude with submission of your portfolio and an OSE exam in July.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You will attend the university on a 'Block release' basis for three days at a time. Activities to enhance your learning will be posted onto the virtual learning environment (Blackboard). Teaching sessions will include keynote lectures, image viewing and report writing session and peer-led seminars. The opportunity to practice and receive feedback on your teaching and leadership skills will also be integrated into the timetable.
How you're assessed
You will be assessed using a range of methods that are appropriate to meet the learning outcomes of this programme, your professional and advanced practice requirements and appropriate for level 7 education.
Methods include, but are not limited to:
A poster- we aim to provide feedback in time for you to submit your poster abstract to UKRC
A presentation on developing into the role of an Advanced Practitioner
A comprehensive portfolio to include a record of your reporting activity, case reviews and reflective entries
An Objective Structured Exam (OSE) in which film viewing, report writing and professional discussion about your portfolio will be incorporated
Entry requirements
Normally, applicants must:
Hold a science or health related degree at 2:1 or above or equivalent
Have English language skills equivalent to IELTS level 7
Have 2 years post-registration experience
Hold current registration with the HCPC or NMC
Consideration will also be given to candidates who present with appropriate professional level diploma qualifications and relevant post-registration experience
You must also:
Assure the university that you have sufficient scope and capacity for you to undertake this course of study
Be supported by a suitably experienced and qualified clinical mentor who is able to contribute to assessment of your clinical competence
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
N/A
£900 per 20 credits
International
N/A
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Careers
This programme supports the development of the expert clinical practice required to undertake the role of an independent reporter.
The programme also provides a foundation for you to go on to fulfil an Advanced Practice or even a Consultant Practice role.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Richard Tucker (Programme leader)
E:
r.tucker@derby.ac.uk
Tel:
+44 (0)1332 591283
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.