Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/independent-scholarship-all-health-professions/

Independent Scholarship (All Health Professions) - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Independent Scholarship (All Health Professions)
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Independent Scholarship (All Health Professions)
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Fees and funding
Module details
Module code
7NU997
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
60 credits
Next course date
September, January
Location
Derby Campus
Module description
About this module
This module reflects the complexity of the interaction of many different aspects of counselling, psychotherapy and therapy practice. There will be an emphasis on the continued development of theoretical learning, advanced development of clinical skills and an emphasis on independent scholarship.
Independent study will focus on both the use of research to support the development of a therapeutic style and the development of an evidence based review of contemporary theory or a small scale research project. The aim is to equip you to reach the level of independent, evidence-based practitioner. There will be a continued emphasis on anti-discriminatory, reflective and ethical practice throughout the module.
Who is this course for
All Health and Social Care Professionals
Learning outcomes
On completion of this module you will be able to:
Demonstrate the ability to work independently; developing thought through courses of action determined by a comprehensive awareness of techniques applicable to your own scholarship.
Critically appraise sources of evidence relating to a chosen area of practice in order to present an academic position.
Critically evaluate and address ethical issues and dilemmas when conducting independent scholarship.
Fees and funding
If you are funding your own study, the module price will be confirmed shortly.
For more information on payment options, please contact our Student Records and Fees team by phone on
+44 (0)1332 591063
or email at
studentrecordsandfees@derby.ac.uk
.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
E:
lbr@derby.ac.uk
T:
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.