Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/independent-scholarship-adult-and-child/

Independent Scholarship (Adult and Child) - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Independent Scholarship (Adult and Child)
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Independent Scholarship (Adult and Child)
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Module details
Module code
7CL995
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
60 credits
Next course date
September
Duration
1 year
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Module description
About this module
There will be an emphasis on the continued development of theoretical learning, advanced development of clinical skills and an emphasis on independent scholarship.
Independent study will focus on both the use of research to support the development of a therapeutic style and the development of an evidence based review of contemporary theory or a small scale research project.
The aim is to equip you to reach the level of independent, evidence-based practitioner. There will be a continued emphasis on anti-discriminatory, reflective and ethical practice throughout the module.
Who is this course for
Health and social care professionals, specifically those working within a mental health field.
Course team
Dr Dzintra Stalmeisters
Dr Michael Townend
Edith Moon
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Understand academic discourse associated with your chosen area of investigation and make use of the conventions of modern scholarly writing in the formulation and completion of a coherent and realisable dissertation, work based project or small scale research project.
Handle advanced critical methodological and theoretical arguments germane to the issues addressed within the dissertation, work based project or small scale research study.
Understand by the synthesis of personal insight, theory and practice, issues and problems relating to practice whilst meeting specific professional body requirements for accreditation/registration and competencies in an ethical and professional way.
Empower your workforce with block bookings
Take advantage of a short courses block booking to upskill your employees. Our short courses run on-campus and online and include new legislation and other up-to-the-minute issues. Get in touch today and we will tailor a package to meet the needs of your business.
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
E:
lbr@derby.ac.uk
T:
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.