Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/independent-scholarship-ot/

Independent Scholarship (OT) - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Independent Scholarship (OT)
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Independent Scholarship (OT)
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
Module details
Module code
7OT999
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
60 credits
Next course date
September, January, April
Duration
12 months
Location
Online
Module description
About this module
Topic and type of study will be specific to each individual, enabling identification of a chosen area relevant to their profession and area of practice.
With the guidance of an advisory team, learning will be individualised to the topic students wish to investigate and the way in which they chose to carry out this work.
The module will consolidate knowledge of the research process and methodology, and enable the student to transfer these skills to investigate, critically evaluate and reflect on aspects of practice within their chosen speciality. In additional, students will also develop a critical awareness of the relevant practical and ethical issues when carrying out the chosen type of investigation and reporting and presentation of all stages of this process.
Who is this course for
Occupational Therapists, Physiotherapists (enrolled on the MSc Hand Therapy), Hand Therapists
Course team
This module is staffed by a number of tutors from across the MSc Advanced Occupational Therapy and MSc Hand Therapy programme teams with expertise cross a range of practice areas. Each student will be allocated two advisors who will guide learning in this module.
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Demonstrate a master‘s level of research competence through personal experience of completing an Independent Scholarship
Develop skills to clearly present the process undertaken documenting outcomes and recommendations
Develop a critical awareness of the practical and ethical issues relevant to the independent scholarship undertaken
Entry requirements
You'll usually need:
Postgraduate diploma in Occupational Therapy
Postgraduate diploma in Hand Therapy
Fees and funding
If you are funding your own study, the module price will be confirmed shortly.
For more information on payment options, please contact our Student Records and Fees team by phone on
+44 (0)1332 591063
or email at
studentrecordsandfees@derby.ac.uk
.
Empower your workforce with block bookings
Take advantage of a short courses block booking to upskill your employees. Our short courses run on-campus and online and include new legislation and other up-to-the-minute issues. Get in touch today and we will tailor a package to meet the needs of your business.
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
E:
lbr@derby.ac.uk
T:
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.