Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/computing-courses/information-technology-bsc-hons-foundation/

Information Technology with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)  - Computing - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Computing
Information Technology with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Information Technology with Foundation Year
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
G50F
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
The best bits
Choose a degree designed in conjunction with industry and the business world to ensure that you develop the skills employers are seeking
Cover the major developments in IT today
Gain valuable experience on an optional year in industry, supported by our dedicated and highly experienced placement staff
Study in our state-of-the-art facilities including our dedicated computing labs and Data Visualisation lab
Benefit from the flexibility of having the option to transfer to another course in our Computing portfolio after your first year
You won’t have any written exams as all assessment is through coursework
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Meeting employers’ needs – for today and tomorrow
As organisations become ever more dependent on information technology to operate efficiently and effectively, our BSc (Hons) Information Technology primes you for exciting career opportunities in any sector, anywhere in the world.
The course captures how our modern global society, and the developing world are increasingly reliant on IT products and services. Mass-market consumer products, such as smart and mobile devices, are harnessing the almost seamless integration of small, portable, easy-to-use IoT devices with access to the World Wide Web and wireless communication technology. This ensures access to vast quantities of information almost anywhere – and the ‘Big Data’ generated using such products can be exploited to help make sound business decisions and to contribute to wider public benefit.
Extend your expertise
This course covers two key themes:
Data analysis and the use of big data
Management of computer systems in business
These themes are supported and enhanced as you study a range of closely related computing and business topics.
You’ll also use modern leading analysis tools to extend your expertise, such as R, Python, Watson Analytics, SAS JMP and Tableau.
Placement year a key stepping stone for Emily
Emily is creating apps that are used around the world in the construction, engineering and nuclear industries. And she says her placement year as a web developer was a key stepping stone to landing her job after graduation.
Read Emily's story
Read Emily's story
Flexibility
You’ll gain fundamental knowledge when studying our BSc (Hons) Information Technology course alongside students on our other Computing and Mathematics degrees. At the end of year one, you’ll then have the option to transfer to one of the following courses if you wish:
BSc (Hons) Computer Science
BSc (Hons) Cyber Security
BSc (Hons) Computer Games Programming
BSc (Hons) Artificial Intelligence and Data Science
(subject to Mathematics prerequisites)
In year two you’ll study specialist modules specifically for your chosen degree, with your final year offering further options to tailor your studies to an area of your interest.
Huge benefits of a placement year
Our students often say that the industrial placement is the most rewarding part of their course. During your placement, you will apply everything that you have learned so far to a business environment and will see how the wider social environment affects the way an organisation uses information technology.
More and more employers now expect their new recruits to have some work experience – so a placement on your CV will help you stand out when you are applying for your first job after graduating.
Makerspace
Open to all students at the University of Derby the Makerspace is a student-led workshop based at our Markeaton Street site. There is a large range of tools in the Makerspace that you are able to use in your own time to design and develop projects.
Find out more about Makerspace
Find out more about Makerspace
Data Science Research Centre
Data is all around us. And our Data Science Research Centre is exploring pioneering ways to manage, process, analyse and obtain intelligence from this data for maximum impact.
Read more
Read more
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Modules are delivered through a mixture of debates, group and individual work, guided reading, lectures, practical sessions in computer labs, tutorials, seminars and presentations by lecturers and guest lecturers.
A key feature of the course is that you will gain valuable experience of designing IT products and services that address ‘real world’ business problems. For example, many in-class exercises and more formal assessments are based around real world case studies and projects.
How you are assessed
Instead of exams, a wide range of feedback and assessment methods is used throughout this course, from short exercises in computer labs to writing a dissertation for your Final Year Independent Studies project.
You will also submit short research papers, take computer-based tests, produce presentations of your work and provide portfolios documenting the design and implementation of IT products and services, such as web design projects.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to free software from major software vendors such as SAS, Microsoft, Adobe, Matlab and VMWare - some are available for student download
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Some assignments are required to be submitted on CDROM/DVDROM £1-£2 Independent Study dissertations are normally submitted electronically, but individual supervisors have the right to request bound copies. In that case, printing and binding expenses are covered by the student approx. £6 per copy
Optional costs not included in your fees
External hard drive and memory card approx. £50-£100
Text books from approx. £20
Personal computer and or tablet computer. From £100 upwards depending on specification
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
As a BSc (Hons) Information Technology graduate, you will find career opportunities in virtually any area of computing and information technology, particularly data analysis and business intelligence. You could progress to become a data analyst, an IT trainer, a reporting specialist, a project manager or even advance to IT director roles.
Alternatively, you could start a business venture developing and managing your own IT products and services, or you could go on to study at postgraduate level with our
MSc Big Data Analytics
or
MSc Information Technology.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Information Technology BSc (Hons)
Computer Science (with pathways) with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Computer Games Programming with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Cyber Security with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)