Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/health-social-community-work-courses/innovating-learning-teaching-assessment-enhanced-professional-practice-certificate-of-credit-online/

Innovating Learning, Teaching Assessment Toward Enhanced Professional Practice Certificate of Credit - Health, Social and Community Work - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Health, Social and Community Work
Innovating Learning, Teaching Assessment Toward Enhanced Professional Practice Certificate of Credit
Apply now
Apply now
Undergraduate Course
Innovating Learning, Teaching and Assessment Toward Enhanced Professional Practice Certificate of Credit
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 12 weeks
UK fee
£1,055
(2025/26)
‡
International fee
£1,055
(2025/26)
‡
Start date
September
Location
Online
The highlights
Accredited by Advance HE, formerly the Higher Education Academy (HEA), as meeting the Professional Standards Framework (PSF) for teaching and supporting learning, meaning you will be eligible to apply for Associate Fellowship of Advance HE when you complete this course
A Certificate of Credit award at level 7 that enables you to grow as an educator and advance your skills in professional practice education. A short 12-week course that is ideal for your continuing professional development
Study alongside health, social care and allied health professionals and develop interprofessional academic and personal skills for future-focused educational practice
Develop your leadership skills and specialise in the teaching and support of student learning and assessment at higher education level
Innovating Learning, Teaching and Assessment Toward Enhanced Professional Practice Certificate of Credit is for registered health, social care or allied health professionals who support higher education learning, teaching and assessment across acute or community service provision.
The online course looks at how higher education can be designed and delivered to motivate and inspire diverse learners from across the care profession and how teaching and assessment practices can positively impact students and subsequently, service users. Course content is underpinned by education for sustainable development and inclusive practice helping you to incorporate and embed these principles into your work as you support diverse groups of learners.
This 12-week postgraduate course explores theories and principles of teaching, learning and assessment while exploring your values and self-awareness in your role supporting higher education students across the broad range of interprofessional health and social care learning environments. The online course seeks to foster critical reflection techniques as you develop as a Practice Educator.
Given the imperative need to protect service users, the online course also looks closely at the crucial role of assessment for the caring profession.
Learning through Professional Practice
Alongside your online studies, you will also engage in learning through your current workplace. To join this online course, you'll need to be able to facilitate learning as part of your role in the workplace and have full support from your employer. You will also need the support of a Practice Education Facilitator (PEF) from within your workplace, who will sign off your evidence and hours accrued towards meeting the programme requirements (20 hours of teaching and 40 hours of associated activity). The PEF will also observe some of your teaching in Practice and sign you off as 'fit for purpose and of good character'.
Work towards Advance HE Associate Fellow Status
This online course is accredited by Advance HE, meaning that you will be eligible to apply for Associate Fellow Advance HE upon successful completion of this module, giving you professional recognition as an educator.
Advance HE Associate Fellowship (AFHEA) (Descriptor 1)
Upon successful completion of the Innovating learning, teaching and assessment toward enhanced professional practice module, the requirements of Advance HE Professional Standards Framework (PSF) Descriptor 1 (D1) will be met.
Associate Fellowship
is for you if you are typically:
an early-career researcher with some teaching responsibilities (e.g., PhD student, graduate training assistant, contract researcher/ post-doctoral researchers)
new to HE teaching, have a limited teaching portfolio or teach part-time
a member of staff who supports academic provision (e.g., learning technologist, learning developer and learning resource/library staff)
a member of staff who undertakes the role of demonstrator/technician roles with some teaching-related responsibilities
an experienced member of staff in a relevant professional area who may be new to teaching and/or supporting learning, or who have a limited teaching portfolio
Descriptor 1
demonstrates an understanding of specific aspects of effective teaching, learning support methods and student learning.
Please note:
The Advance HE registration process incurs an additional fee that staff not employed by an Advance HE subscribing institution will be asked to pay to Advance HE before Associate Fellowship is awarded. Please refer to
the Advance HE website
for further information.
Offset credits towards a Postgraduate Certificate qualification
Once you’ve completed this course, you may be able to offset the 20 credits towards our
online Leading Interprofessional Practice Education Postgraduate Certificate (PG Cert)
. This would entail completing one additional 40 credit module to achieve the full PG Cert and Advance HE Fellowship recognition.
What you will study
The Innovating Learning, Teaching and Assessment Toward Enhanced Professional Practice Certificate of Credit can be obtained upon passing the core level 7, 20 credit module.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
You will study online with regular touch points with your module tutor. Live sessions will be delivered to discuss educational issues and engage and debate with fellow students via a community of practice and interprofessional cultural exchange.
Orientation Through a Course Induction
A full course online induction is available for you to familiarise yourself with the virtual learning environment (VLE) and your study materials, the online library resources, our student support services, study skills sessions and more.
Community of Practice and Professional Networks
Built into the course are opportunities for you to build a community of practice as an educator, with like-minded professionals. Our VLE features café forums and digital discussion spaces allowing you to engage in dialogue and debate with fellow students. All this helps you to build a peer support group and develop your professional networks.
Critical Appraisal via Feedback and Observation
Throughout the course there are opportunities for peer assessment and feedback. This will take place virtually and in your workplace. You will observe and critique others and have your own teaching observed to allow for constructive feedforward towards your personal development.
Mentoring from a Practice Education Facilitator
You will need to be supported within your place of work by a Practice Education Facilitator (PEF) / mentor. The PEF/Mentor will observe and assess your progression toward meeting the expectations of the practice requirements of the programme. The PEF/Mentor will sign off your final submission of the required hours and note your fitness for practice as an educator. Upon application, please evidence details of your PEF/mentor. It will be your responsibility to secure a PEF/Mentor who holds a PGCE and Advance HE Fellowship. If this is not possible, we may be able to help with this.
Assessment method
This course is assessed through 100% coursework with a range of methods, such as essays, research reports, presentations, group work and practical reports.
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Who will teach you
Suzanne Le Blond
Programme Leader
Suzanne Le Blond
Suzanne is a Senior Lecturer in the Discipline area of Midwifery, Children and Professional Practice within the School of Nursing and College of Health, Psychology and Social Care. As an experienced educator, in higher education and a ...
View full staff profile
→
Explore all teaching staff on this course
Entry requirements
You should normally have:
a degree qualification in a health or social care-related subject demonstrating successful previous study
A teaching aspect to your role and be a registered professional currently working within the health or social care setting
a written statement from your employer / sponsor committing to financial support and protected practice-based study time. If you are self-funding this will need to be clear in the application, but you will still need to secure protected practice-based study time
the availability of a suitably qualified, annotated mentor / practice teachers / practice educator to support you during the programme and formally 'sign off' your practice on completion
We will also consider your application if you have evidence of level 6 study (minimum 20 credits) plus at least 6-12 months experience of working in a relevant field.
English language qualifications
If English is not your first language, or you have not successfully completed your highest level of qualification in English, you will need an English language qualification. For this course you will need at least one of the following:
IELTS 7.0 (6.5 score in the Writing section of the test will be accepted alongside a 7.0 score in each of the Reading, Listening and Speaking sections of the test)
TOEFL: 600 (paper based), 250 (computer based) or 100 (internet based)
Pearson Test of Academic English: 51
Cambridge Advanced Certificate: Pass
London Tests of English: we accept level 4 for undergraduate courses
International GCE O Level English Language: Grade C
International GCSE English/English as a Second Language: Grade C
Find out more about our English language requirements
Fees and funding
‡
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£1,055
1
£1,055
About your fees
Prices are correct for the year of entry shown. These are subject to annual increase in subsequent academic years.
Any costs or expenses incurred for the end of module presentation are not included in the course fees
Your application to Advance HE for Associate Fellow and Fellowship status is made direct to Advance HE upon successfully completing this course unless you are employed by an affiliated organisation. Fees incurred are not included in the course fee
Flexible payment plan available
Pay monthly
for the course that you are studying
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
Evidence of employer support for study and any funding support on an organisational headed letter
Evidence of professional qualifications e.g copy of certificates
Current CV
Details of your Practice Education Facilitator / mentor
Written reference supplied on headed paper from either a manager, supervisor, tutor or teacher
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Application deadlines
All of our online courses have set start dates throughout the year. We require time to review your application and get back to you with a response before your course starts. Take a look at
information regarding applying for an online course
to see full details of deadlines and term dates.
Careers
Career prospects will be enhanced upon completion of this Certificate of Credit through demonstrating that you can study at postgraduate level, by developing a working knowledge of how higher education applies to a diverse range of settings and through networking with an interprofessional community of practice. You will develop competency and capability to assess at a higher level than at pre-registration and to work autonomously as an educator.
You could use this Certificate of Credit towards completing the
Postgraduate Certificate in Leading Interprofessional Practice Education
or toward another full master's programme.
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
Leading Interprofessional Practice Education Postgraduate Certificate
Leadership in Health and Social Care MSc
Clinical Supervision Postgraduate Certificate
Education MA