Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/engineering/acoustics-and-noise-control-ioa-diploma/

Institute of Acoustics Diploma in Acoustics and Noise Control - Engineering - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Engineering
Institute of Acoustics Diploma in Acoustics and Noise Control
Apply now
Apply now
Professional Course
Institute of Acoustics Diploma in Acoustics and Noise Control
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Next course date
September
Duration
1 year
Delivery
Face to face
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
Course description
Take your interest and skills in acoustics to the next level on this practical and inspiring accredited course.
Gain the knowledge, practical skills and problem-solving abilities which are essential for professional acousticians
Choose to specialise in specific areas of acoustics to reflect your current job role or career aspirations
Build your professional credibility on a course accredited by the
Institute of Acoustics
and meet the educational requirements for membership of the Institute
Study at a leading centre with over 20 years’ experience of delivering acoustics training
The IOA diploma is a part-time course delivered on campus and is therefore unavailable to International Students
A boost for your career and promotion prospects
Our
Institute of Acoustics (IOA) Diploma
is a popular choice for people already in employment who want to enhance their career prospects. Many work as pollution control or noise control officers with local authorities, environmental consultancies, architecture and engineering firms. We also attract students who have just completed their undergraduate degrees and want to broaden their employment options.
The Diploma is useful for individuals from a wide range of professional and academic backgrounds. Over the last decade, it has, for instance, become popular with music technologists and geographers.
A valuable professional qualification
The Diploma is a sought-after accredited qualification which can lead to Associate Membership of the IOA, regarded as the UK’s leading professional body in acoustics.
The IOA works with educational institutions to ensure the Diploma remains up to date and professionally relevant at all times. Members of our own teaching team take an active role in Institute affairs, serving on its Course and Educational Committees and helping to shape the structure of the Diploma.
As well as providing specialist academic training so that you can satisfy the educational requirements for membership of the IOA, the course can put you on the fast track to a masters degree at the University. It provides partial exemption from the requirements for the award of our
MSc Applied Acoustics
.
Learn from the experts
We have a strong reputation for delivering high-quality acoustics courses. Derby is currently the largest centre in the Midlands for the IOA Diploma, recruiting around 20 students per academic year who study at our Derby Campus on a Wednesday.
You’ll benefit from the support of our friendly and approachable academic staff. Our teaching team is made up of experienced and research-active acousticians, supported by locally-based consultants who deliver guest lectures on specialist themes.
Pursue your specialist interests
As part of the course, you can choose to focus on specific areas of acoustics, with specialist modules in Building Acoustics; Regulation and Assessment of Noise; Environmental Noise: Prediction, Measurement and Control; and Noise and Vibration Control Engineering. You will also undertake an individual research study exploring an aspect of acoustics which particularly interests you or which will aid your career progress.
What you will study
You'll study core modules such as:
Modules
General Principles of Acoustics
- You’ll explore the nature and behaviour of sound and vibration, its measurement and noise indices, response of humans to sound and vibration, basics of room acoustics, and the principles of  noise control engineering
Laboratory and Experimental methods
- This module develops the practical and vocational skills that are essential for the professional acoustician, it also includes exercises which  support some of the basic principles introduced in the General Principles of Acoustics module
Project
- This module is an opportunity for students to carry out an individual research study in a specific area of acoustics. The project can be work-based
The specialist modules provide an opportunity for students to focus in a specific area of acoustics. Students take a further two specialist modules from the following:
Building Acoustics
- The Building Acoustics module considers the acoustical parameters that define the sound quality in a space, and reviews a selection of case studies, including theatres and teaching spaces
Regulation and Assessment of Noise
- The module focuses on the legislative aspects and the Standards and Guidance documents in acoustics
Environmental Noise: Prediction, Measurement and Control
- This module focuses on the main sources of outdoor noise, their impact on the environment, and how they are assessed and controlled
Noise and Vibration Control Engineering
- This module considers the full range of mitigation measures associated with noise/vibration control at source, along the transmission path, and at the receiver end
Entry requirements
You’ll need an undergraduate degree, diploma, or higher national diploma in a science or science related discipline. Non-standard entry candidates are also welcome to apply.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
£3,900 for the full course.
Additional costs and optional extras
How to apply
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Who will teach you
Mark Dring
Programme leader
Mark is a lecturer on the Sound, Light and Live Event Technology Degree and also on the IOA Diploma in Acoustics and Noise Control.
View full staff profile
View full staff profile
Careers
If you are currently employed, this qualification will broaden your skill set, raise your professional profile and enhance your promotion prospects.
If you are just starting out on your career, the Diploma is a stepping stone to roles in local authorities, environmental/noise consultancies and industry. Many of our students finish their studies knowing that they have already secured a job.
Successful completion of the Diploma also means you can top up your qualification to a masters award. Find out more about our
MSc Applied Acoustics
.
Contact us
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
The information below is correct for entry in the academic year September 2020 - August 2021 only. Entry for future academic years may be subject to change.
Included in your fees
All costs associated with laboratory and fieldwork
Optional costs not included in your fees
Personal computer or tablet computer approx. £500
Other courses you might like
Applied Acoustics MSc
Institute of Acoustics Certificate of Competence in Environmental Noise Measurement