Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/engineering/ioa-environmental-noise-measurement/

Institute of Acoustics Certificate of Competence in Environmental Noise Measurement - Engineering - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Engineering
Institute of Acoustics Certificate of Competence in Environmental Noise Measurement
Apply now
Apply now
Professional Course
Institute of Acoustics Certificate of Competence in Environmental Noise Measurement
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Learning outcomes
Benefits
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Next course date
TBC
Duration
35 hours of contact time
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Lecture/workshop days - dates/times
5 day course, 9:00am - 4.30pm
Exam dates/times
6 October 2023
Course description
About this module
This course is accredited by the Institute of Acoustics. This recognition, coupled with over 25 years’ experience of delivering short courses in acoustics, means we have the knowledge and expertise to support you in this course.
Because we know that many of you will be working and will be taking this course as part of your professional development, we may be able to hold the course at your place of work for your convenience.
This course is divided into five key areas:
Basic Concepts of Environmental Noise
You’ll receive an overview of the basic definitions and principles of sound, noise indices, and units, and the basic calculations involving decibels and noise indices.
Instrumentation for Environmental Noise Measurement
You will go through the basic features and properties of an integrating sound level meter. We will also consider the importance of both field and laboratory calibration requirements.
Noise Indices and Measurement Methodologies for Environmental Noise Measurement
You will review noise assessment methods and standards, including the new guidance documents on noise in relation to planning applications, BS4142, CRTN, and BS5228. The focus here is very much on measurement methodology and less so on the legislative requirements.
Environmental Noise Measurement in Practice
We’ll encourage you to focus on the principles and good practice of noise measurement in the field, including those stipulated in BS7445.  You will also consider the limitations of noise measurement through the application of practical case studies and uncertainty. There will be plenty of opportunities to practise your skills outdoors.
Overview of Noise Propagation
This part of the course focuses on the propagation of noise from point and line sources and the effects of the environment on noise propagation.
Who is this course for
If you’re employed in a technical or scientific role by local authorities, environmental consultancies or other organisations where environmental noise measurement features, this course is ideal for you.
No formal qualifications are required. Successful completion of the course can lead to technical membership of the Institute of Acoustics.
Learn from an expert teaching team
Acoustics and noise control expertise; Member of the IOA; Member of various IOA Committees, including the Education Committee and External Examiners group
Tim Green – Associate Lecture in acoustics and practising consultant
Structure, certificates and assessment
The course will start on a Monday and will take five full-time days to complete.
This is a hands-on course that will develop your skills in undertaking noise measurements and interpreting the results, so it will be very relevant to the job you do.
You'll take a practical exam on the Friday. There's also a written exam that is normally held on a Friday about two weeks after the course.
Certificate/award on completion:
Institute of Acoustics Certificate of Competence in Environmental Noise Measurement
Learning outcomes
Gain practical skills associated with environmental noise measurement
Gain an understanding of the basic acoustical principles in the context of environmental noise.
Benefits
The next step could be the IOA diploma in Acoustics.
You're probably already in employment, so you'll be able to put the skills you develop into practice immediately in your role. Gaining this qualification could also enhance your career prospects as it will set you apart from your peers.
Fees and funding
The cost of the course is £1,400 (including IOA registration fee) for the academic year 2022/23.
Please note this is subject to change for the academic year 2023/24.
How to apply
Thank you for expressing interest in this course. To register your interest in studying this course and find out when the next enrolment is, please contact
sande@derby.ac.uk
.
Who will teach you
Mark Dring
Programme leader
Mark is a lecturer on the Sound, Light and Live Event Technology Degree and also on the IOA Diploma in Acoustics and Noise Control.
View full staff profile
View full staff profile
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
College Student Centre
sande@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591066
(press 3)
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us