Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/criminology-policing-courses/intelligence-security-and-disaster-management-msc/

Intelligence, Security and Disaster Management MSc - Criminology and Policing - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Criminology and Policing
Intelligence, Security and Disaster Management MSc
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Intelligence, Security and Disaster Management
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road and One Friar Gate Square, Derby Campus
At Derby, you don’t just study the theory and background to resilience, through security, intelligence and planning for emergency and disaster risk reduction and response. You will take these aspects into real-life situations and develop knowledge, skills and vocational attributes that will give you the necessary experience to develop or enhance career paths in these fascinating areas.
A unique combination
Our MSc degree has been carefully designed to improve your knowledge and understanding of key aspects of Intelligence, Security and Disaster Management.
Our programme brings together insights from a wide range of disciplines across Social Sciences, Natural Sciences and Public and Environmental Health. This unique combination will enable you to develop a comprehensive understanding of contemporary issues such as:
terrorism and its varied manifestation in the modern era (extremism, radicalisation, malevolence etc.)
security and threat vectors
disruptive Events (disasters, emergency, incidents etc.) their causes, impacts and management
climate crisis and changes in environmental, physical, social and economic dimensions
humanitarian assistance in evolving and unsecured territories.
90
%
of students agree they are satisfied with the quality of their course
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2024
Dealing with emergencies for the British Red Cross
Rhea Sutton is putting the skills she learned in our MSc Intelligence, Security and Disaster Management degree directly into practice. She is an Emergency Response Officer for the British Red Cross in Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire.
Read Rhea's story
Read Rhea's story
Developing your skills through sector engagement
The programme offers an innovative blend of theoretical knowledge and practical insights that will support you to become an outstanding professional in the fields of Intelligence, Security and Disaster Management or other related sectors.
Our programme offers a range of opportunities to interact with professionals from different authorities, services and organisations in the United Kingdom and beyond. You will be exposed to the latest research and practice-based knowledge as you deepen your understanding of how to respond to critical challenges such as natural disasters, mass casualty events, violent extremism and the threats posed by climate change. This exposure to the operating environment in the UK is complemented by opportunities to engage with multiple experts and intergovernmental organisations based across the United States of America (USA), Europe, South America, Asia and the Pacific region.
Our strong collaborative networks, locally and globally, mean you will be exposed to outstanding guest speakers and contributors who can cater to a range of student interests. These connections to expert practitioners will give you valuable insights into how the concepts taught in this programme are applied in practice within the UK and around the world.
You will also gain valuable insights from leading practitioners in these fields around the skills and knowledge required to excel in your future career.
External Recognition
Our programme is recognised by the United Kingdom National Security Secretariat. It is listed on the Civil Service Platform called the Crisis Management Excellence Programme (CMEP). Coordinated by Cabinet Office Briefing Rooms (COBR), CMEP exists to support the professionalisation of crisis management in government through a combination of formal training, informal knowledge sharing, exercising, and a cross-government community of like-minded professionals.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
The MSc Intelligence, Security and Disaster Management course is made up of three stages – Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma and MSc. You will study modules such as:
Postgraduate Certificate
You will study this module:
Introducing Risk and Managing Disasters (Core 40 credits)
And you will choose options from:
Health Protection
Understanding Radicalisation
Geoscience and Security
Postgraduate Diploma
You will study this module:
Research and the Skilled Practitioner (Core 20 credits)
And you will choose options from:
Global Environmental and Public Health
Contemporary Issues in Intelligence and Security
Concepts of Global Terrorism
Disasters and Humanitarian Aid Response
MSc Intelligence, Security and Disaster Management
You will study this module:
Independent Research Study
During this triple module (60 credits) you will carry out an extensive and academically rigorous study of a topic of your choice relevant to any, or any combination of, the fields of intelligence, security, disaster and/or crisis management, risk reduction, response and/or resilience.
Please note: modules are subject to availability, and may change to suit the needs of industry.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You will be taught by a passionate, enthusiastic and skilled team, together with expert guest lecturers and speakers from across the fields of intelligence, security and disaster management including UN agencies, first response agencies, NGOs and public sector entities. You will learn through
traditional lectures,
experiential learning (which may include seminars, role-playing, fieldtrips)
service learning (which may include research, community engagement activities, volunteering)
creative learning (which may include may include prediction, simulation exercise, design thinking and thought experiment).
The programme teaching team combines several years of experience teaching security and disaster management related modules using the above outlined teaching methods.
Dr Dolapo Fakuade
(Programme Leader)
Dr Rachel Rafferty
Dr Andrew Wilson
Dr Mohammed Ilyas
How you are assessed
The course will assess your skills, knowledge, and understanding including transferable skills through essays based on case studies, scenarios, presentations, briefings and risk assessment and analysis, data mapping and research-based tasks. Assessment is through 100% coursework.
You will also be assessed through independent study based on a topic of your choice. Additional practical assessment may be undertaken as simulation exercise, based on observation, interaction and a range of experiential approaches to problem-solving.
Who will teach you
Dr Dolapo Fakuade
Programme Leader
Dr Dolapo Fakuade
Dr Dolapo Fakuade leads MSc Intelligence, Security and Disaster Management at the School of Law and Social Sciences. She brings international perspectives from teaching, research and practice garnered from working in different countrie...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
For the MSc you will usually need:
An undergraduate degree (2:2 or above) in a social science subject (criminology, sociology, psychology, international relations, policing, criminal justice), natural sciences (including but not exclusive to geography, earth sciences) or health (across a range of programmes to be discussed with programme leader), business studies or economics.
If English is not your first language, you will also need IELTS 6.5 with 5.5 in each skills area.
We also welcome applicants who have substantial professional experience but do not have a degree, subject to personal statements, references and interviews with the programme leader.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Security and Disaster Management related webinar series
Guest contributions from experts from around the world, which could include UN agencies, first response agencies, NGOs and public sector entities etc. incorporated into different modules. You would experience this based on the module you select.
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
An MSc Intelligence, Security and Disaster Management opens up many career options, including:
Emergency Planning Officers in private or public sector roles
Crisis Management
Risk Assessors
Atomic and nuclear emergency response
First responder services (Police, Fire and Ambulance Services)
British Transport and Nuclear Police
Civil Service
Infrastructure Protection
Business Continuity
Humanitarian Aid
Governments in the UK and elsewhere in intelligence roles, military or civil intelligence and/or security services
National Crime Agency
United Nations (UNHCR, UNICEF)
Civil Aviation
Security in the private sector
Environmental and public health roles in international arenas
Disaster Managers and Disaster Relief Specialists
Travel and Insurance Specialists
Underwriter
British Red Cross (BRC) and International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC)
People in Need (Rapid Deployment Professionals)
Relief International
Save the Children
Goal Global
International Human Rights roles
Médecins Sans Frontières
International public sector.
How Daniel's masters is helping him to help others
A passion for improving conditions for communities in developing countries is what drove Daniel to study our MSc Intelligence, Security and Disaster Management.
Read case study
Read case study
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Criminal Investigation MSc
Criminal Justice and Criminology MSc
Police Leadership, Strategy and Organisation MSc