Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/education-courses/ipgce-online/

International Postgraduate Certificate of Education (iPGCE) - Education - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Education
International Postgraduate Certificate of Education (iPGCE)
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
International Postgraduate Certificate of Education (iPGCE)
PG Cert
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 1 year
UK fee
£3,990
(2024/25)
‡
International fee
£3,990
(2024/25)
‡
Start dates
September, January, May
Location
Online
Please note that due to the popularity of this online course we urge you to apply early to avoid disappointment as places are limited.
The International Postgraduate Certificate of Education (iPGCE) programme is designed to support educators who are currently in practice outside the UK. This level 7 (Masters Level) course develops practical teaching skills, while deepening your critical awareness of education in rapidly changing global contexts.
The iPGCE gives a grounding in contemporary pedagogy, while providing challenge and deeper critical perspectives for established professionals. Wherever you are in your career, the iPGCE can support your professional development and help you to move forward. If you continue onto a Masters programme, such as our
online MA Education
, credits gained on the iPGCE will count towards that further qualification.
This programme is designed to be completed alongside full-time employment as a teacher. It allows you to engage flexibly at times to suit you, so you can work round your ongoing professional commitments. Unlike many other qualifications, the iPGCE does not rely upon active support or involvement from other staff or management in your setting and can be completed successfully whatever educational system or curricular framework you teach within.
By studying this postgraduate qualification, you will be gaining valuable knowledge relevant to all subjects and curricula, encouraging you to consider new ways of understanding teaching, learning and education in an international context.
Please note:
Teaching qualifications are recognised differently in national contexts, jurisdictions and educational sectors around the world. You should make yourself aware of the requirements in your specific national context and sector. (If you are looking for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) recognised within the UK (subject to current probationary conditions), you may wish to consider our
online International QTS programme
.)
92%
Staff are enthusiastic about what they are teaching
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2024
92%
The workload on the course is manageable
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2024
Gain a global perspective on education
Learning online allows you to connect with practitioners across the world, enabling you to reflect on education on a global scale as well as seeing how different methods of teaching are applied in diverse international contexts. This rounded view can help inform your own practice.
Learn from tutors who have worldwide experience in teaching
Be inspired and soak up the experience of our tutors who have a wealth of global experience.
Study at an institution with an excellent reputation in education
We provide high quality teacher education, as reflected in our awards of OFSTED Outstanding in Primary and Further Education phases. OFSTED is a government assessment body in the UK.
This, coupled with University of Derby Online Learning’s (UDOL) reputation in online learning design and student support, means that this programme will offer a high-quality experience to learners.
What you will study
To complete the International Postgraduate Certificate of Education (iPGCE) you will need to complete a total of 60 credits by studying three 20 credit modules.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Online iPGCE Q&A: December 2024
Wednesday, 4 December 2024 10.30 - 11.30
If you're interested in joining the iPGCE and wish to find out more, join the live Q&A to hear from Andy Bloor, Programme Leader, and get your questions answered.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
Pace of study
We recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete one 20-credit module over a 10-week trimester.
There will be 1/2 virtual classrooms over the 10 week trimester and if you are unable to attend you will be able to download the session to view in your own time.
Assessment method
This course is assessed through 100% coursework with a range of methods, such as essays, research reports, presentations, group work and practical reports.
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Who will teach you
Andy Bloor
Programme Leader
Andy Bloor
Andy Bloor is a Senior Lecturer in International Education and Programme Lead for the iPGCE. His fields of interest are around International and Comparative Education and Social, Emotional and Mental Health Difficulties in children, pa...
View full staff profile
→
Explore all teaching staff on this course
Get a taste of the course content
Our International Postgraduate Certificate in Education (iPGCE) course taster will give you an idea of how online learning works. It includes a selection of content from a course module so you can see what some of our learning material looks like.
You will need to complete a short form to access the course taster.
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Entry requirements
You will require:
An undergraduate degree (at least a 2:2) with Honours or equivalent
You must be an educator who is currently employed in educational/classroom context
To be working in a classroom setting, regularly planning for, teaching and assessing children aged between 3-18 years of age for a minimum of 15 hours per week
English language qualifications
If English is not your first language, or you have not successfully completed your highest level of qualification in English, you will need an English language qualification. For this course you will need at least one of the following:
IELTS (International English Language Testing System) 6.5 (a minimum score of 6 in one area may be acceptable)
TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) 580 (paper based) 237 (computer based) or 92 (internet based)
Pearson Test of Academic English: 51
Cambridge Advanced Certificate: pass
London Tests of English: we accept level 5 for postgraduate courses
International GCE O-level English Language: grade C
International GCSE English/English as a Second Language: grade C
For academic year 2024/5 ( September 2024 and January 2025 intakes), we are accepting Duolingo English Test (DET)
minimum score of 120
or above and a minimum score of 120 in each area (a minimum score of 105 may be acceptable in one area).
Find out more about our English language requirements
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£1,330
3
£3,990
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£1,330
3
£3,990
About your fees
This figure would be the total cost of this course based on the fee in the current academic year. However, please note that fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase if your course lasts longer than one year.
If you are required to undertake any associate study or additional study as a condition of your offer for the programme, please be aware that the cost for this may be in addition to the programme cost stated above.
Flexible payment plans available
Choose from
two payment plan options
:
Pay monthly and only for the modules you are studying
Pay your full course fees upfront and avoid annual increases
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Current CV evidencing that you are working in a classroom setting for a minimum of 15 hours per week
Written reference supplied on headed paper from either a manager, supervisor, tutor or teacher
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Application deadlines
All of our online courses have set start dates throughout the year. We require time to review your application and get back to you with a response before your course starts. Take a look at
information regarding applying for an online course
to see full details of deadlines and term dates.
Careers
The iPGCE is a highly respected qualification that boosts the professional status, and transforms the practice of teachers all over the world. Equivalent to the academic content of a UK PGCE, it is applicable across the global diversity of education sectors. Whether you are a Kindergarten teacher in Kuala Lumpur, an English teacher in Lagos, or teach advanced Mathematics in Mexico, an iPGCE can help you do what you do even better.
The iPGCE can help progress your career, giving you the knowledge and confidence to enter school leadership, subject coordinator or pastoral roles. Equally, critical awareness of the differences as well as common principles in global education gives you the versatility to make new career choices, responding flexibly to a changing world.
Upon completing this course, you may wish to go on to a full Masters award such as our
online MA Education
which offers specialist pathways in Leadership and Management or TESOL. Credits gained on the iPGCE will count towards your Masters at Derby, considerably reducing the time and cost involved.
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
International Qualified Teacher Status (iQTS)
Early Childhood Studies (Top-Up) BA (Hons)
Education (Leadership and Management) MA
Education MA
Leading Interprofessional Practice Education Postgraduate Certificate