Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/counselling-psychotherapy-courses/integrative-counselling-psychotherapy-msc/

Integrative Counselling and Psychotherapy (incorporating PG Cert/PG Dip) (BACP Accredited) MSc - Counselling and Psychotherapy - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Counselling and Psychotherapy
Integrative Counselling and Psychotherapy (incorporating PG Cert/PG Dip) (BACP Accredited) MSc
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Integrative Counselling and Psychotherapy (incorporating PG Cert/PG Dip)
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 2 years,  Part-time: 3 years
UK fee
£11,340 for the full course or £1,260 per 20 credits
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 per year of study
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Study a course accredited by the
British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy
(BACP), so you can be sure it's relevant and recognised throughout the profession. Applicable on completion of the full MSc
Build on your theoretical psychotherapeutic understanding to become a reflective practitioner, by improving your clinical skills and deepening your personal insight
Develop your psychotherapeutic theory and skills in an intellectually creative and stimulating environment
Develop transferable research skills related to psychotherapy and provide an opportunity to develop confidence in a self-critical and reflective approach to study
Please note that our partners at Mediterranean College (Greece) run MSc Integrative Counselling & Psychotherapy, the difference is it is not BACP accredited but meets all the competencies of BACP.
This course is accredited by the
British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy
(BACP), so you can be sure it’s relevant and recognised within the psychotherapeutic and health care profession. The course will help you to further your career and become a BACP accredited and autonomous counselling practitioner when you complete the full MSc.
The MSc in Integrative Counselling and Psychotherapy provides an innovative approach to psychotherapeutic practice that enables you to learn about three different psychotherapeutic approaches; person-centered, attachment theory, and cognitive behaviour psychotherapy. A trans-theoretical model is used to provide a framework to integrate these theories to acknowledge the complexities of human problems in a meaningful way.
You’ll be encouraged to develop your understanding of the theoretical, social, cultural and ideological contexts in which your clients perceive, confront and manage problems. You’ll also consider and analyse major trends and orientations within integrative therapeutic work and develop your ability to identify and use appropriate sources of supervision within counselling practice.
Apart from the first module of the first year, you’ll need to engage in clinical supervised practice in your own place of work or in your placement. This will allow you to put your enhanced knowledge of counselling and psychotherapy into practice and is an important element of the course. The hours of clinical practice vary for each academic year.
The teaching will vary, depending on the module, to provide you with the most effective learning strategies. You can expect to learn through debates and discussions, experiential exercises, problem-solving, lectures and tutorials. Assessments also vary from written assignments through to practical assessments and a final dissertation at the master’s stage. Your personal tutor will support you in your studies.
We’re proud to say that our courses are closely mapped against the health and social care sector. This ensures that our curriculum is up-to-date, providing you with the assurance that your learning is current and relevant. This does mean that we do have to respond to national changes such as government policy.
100
%
Overall Satisfaction - MSc Integrative Counselling and Psychotherapy
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
This course is made up of three stages – Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma, and MSc.
You’ll study modules such as:
Postgraduate Certificate
Integrating Psychotherapeutic Theory and Practice
, includes the following modular assessments: 4,000-word assignment on theory and 2,000-words critical analysis of practice
Professional Practice 1
, includes the following modular assessments: 3,000 words self-reflective journal and a portfolio evidencing professional practice
Current Developments in Psychotherapeutic Theory and Practice
, includes the following modular assessments: two 2,500-word case study based on 2 recordings of supervised clinical practice in an audited placement
Postgraduate Diploma
Research Methods, Ethics and Law in Psychotherapeutic Practice
, includes the following modular assessments: 2,500-word assignment on therapeutic relationship and ethics/legal implications to practice and 2,500-word research proposal
Professional Integrative Practice
, includes the following modular assessments: 2 x 3,000-word case studies based on 2 recordings of supervised clinical practice in an audited placement and a presentation of the above to a panel of academic staff
Professional Practice 2
, includes the following modular assessments: 3,000-word summary of self-reflective journal and a portfolio evidencing professional practice
MSc
Independent Scholarship
, includes the following modular assessments: 10,000-15,000-word dissertation or thesis 10% less or more, 3000-word summary of self-reflective diary and a portfolio evidencing professional practice
Assessment Regulations
In accordance with the University Quality Assessment Regulations there is an annual assessment process which defines that an external examiner examines all work after internal moderation. The external examiner is appropriately qualified and has no current inappropriate relationship with other courses or members of the course. The external examiner must receive a sample of work monitor and safeguards the standard of the students’ assessed course work.
Students are assessed prior to working in agencies by completing a recorded counselling session with an unknown client (actor).  Students are required to critically assess their interaction demonstrating their depth of knowledge and understanding of counselling skills and theories. This assignment is a case study of 2500 word in which students critically analyse the client’s presenting issues in relation to the learned theories and skills.  This assignment is supported by a 4000-word written piece of work that is focused on theoretical understanding in relation to practice.
ALL STUDENTS MUST PASS THIS BEFORE GOING ON PLACEMENTS;
all students must also have clinical supervisors, indemnity insurance and BACP membership in place before starting placements.
Placement hours are subject to change.
Each agency where students work with ‘real’ clients is required to agree to a three-way contract that enables the parties involved to be able to contact the other where concerns are raised about student’s practice.
All assessment and learning outcomes are explained by the programme leader to ensure consistency is maintained across the board for all students. All outcomes for the module are explained in writing and verbally by the programme leader and module leaders. Any student who might need a one to one on assessment is seen by the module leader or programme leader to ensure that the learning outcomes are completely understood by all.
Feedback to students on all work procedure as follows:
All feedback is given within 15 working days of submission and is posted on Turnitin
All feedback has a format that is used for all the modules and all markers follow the format for consistency. This is overseen by the programme leader.
All students who want to meet after the feedback for pointers on how to improve their work are met for a personal tutorial
If a student fails, they are contacted immediately for a face to face meeting and extra support when needed is put in place, this could also include support from the Student Wellbeing Centre
In case of students who have not met the learning outcomes, feedback is not posted on Turnitin until the programme leader has informed them by phone of the outcome. After this conversation, a meeting is arranged with the marker, the student and the programme leader face to face to explain the feedback and outcome. Measures at this point are put in for the students in order to support them to redo their work and pass the module.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Teaching methods are varied to provide the best possible application to clinical practice. You will learn from enquiry-based learning to help develop high level problem-solving skills, ongoing supervision and case management, experiential and skills-based workshops, video work, seminars, group working, counselling and psychotherapy skills training and lecture-based teaching and discussion. You will also develop skills in critical reflection and evaluation helping you to develop the ability for autonomous practice.
How you're assessed
The programme uses a wide variety of assessment methods including written assignments; video/audio work; construction of a professional portfolio including a summary of self-reflective diary, summative and formative presentation - viva voce.
All work is assessed in terms of the modular and generic learning outcomes. Each module has two or three learning outcomes which are then assessed via the module assessment schedule. The assessment strategy is dependent on the location of the learning outcome in one of four domains: cognitive, attitudinal, psychomotor, or transferable.
Feedback is provided for all assessed work using the Postgraduate grading scale and using standardised feedback grids that maintain clarity of observations and identification of content. Formative assessments and feedback are provided to the students through tutorials that are incorporated into the modular timetable and summative assessments are provided in February and July each year.
The course operates within the university policy of personal tutors.
A sample of assignments from each module are internally and externally moderated to ensure parity and quality of feedback to students.
Entry requirements
You'll need an undergraduate degree
You’ll need experience working with people and excellent communications and listening skills
If English is not your first language you must have achieved an IELTS score of at least level 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each skill area)
A Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) is required at the point of accepting a place at the University
Interview information
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£11,340 for the full course or £1,260 per 20 credits
£1,260 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 per year of study
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£11,655 for the full course or £1,295 per 20 credits
£1,295 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 per year of study
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
DBS Check
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Travel costs to placements
Core textbooks approx. £300
Professional membership of BACP as a student member
Clinical supervision fortnightly for three years approx. £30-£60 per session
Professional liability insurance varying cost
Personal therapy in year one, two and three
Membership of the BACP, please check their website for their current membership rate
Optional costs not included in your fees
Other relevant textbooks approx. £300
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Please note that admissions for this course are conducted using a pooled approach. The deadline for applications is 14 February 2025. Interview outcomes will not be released until after the final interviews have taken place. By late March all applicants should receive interview outcomes. To find out more about this process please see our
Gathered Field Policy
.
Careers
Past graduates have been employed in a wide variety of counselling settings such as general practice, health and social services, the police, accident and emergency services, HR, education, voluntary organisations and private practice.
I think it is invaluable to be able to learn from such accomplished professionals. I always felt inspired and motivated by their genuine passion. Without a doubt, the journey I went through during the course has prepared me for a career in mental health.
Sofia Tanzanu
MSc Integrative Counselling and Psychotherapy
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Course: Jazz Kang (Programme Leader)
j.kang@derby.ac.uk
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.