Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/business-courses/international-business-msc/

International Business MSc - Business - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Business
International Business MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
International Business
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2-3 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, January
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Focus on applied analysis in economics, strategy, law, finance, marketing and human resources– all with a global perspective
Network with regional experts and international business leaders who provide guest lectures, consultancy projects, case studies and professional mentoring
Enhance your CV and boost your employability with our unique Futures Award in Leadership in International Business
Use real-world data from
Bloomberg
to add substance to your research into companies and markets across the globe
You could also study
MSc International Business and Finance
,
MSc International Business and Marketing
or
MSc International Business and HRM
100
%
overall satisfaction - MSc International Business
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
Crucial knowledge for today’s business world
As a driving force for economic growth, globalisation has opened up exciting career prospects for high-calibre, forward-thinking and confident business professionals. We’ve designed this MSc International Business to help you make the most of the opportunities ahead.
We will help you develop a thorough understanding of the economic, financial, legal and cultural factors facing international business. Our course brings together disciplines such as international business strategy, management and marketing, international economics and international trade legislation.
Drawing on real-world case studies, you’ll hone your skills in quantitative analysis and applied research as you explore all aspects of business operations in an international context.
High-profile partnerships
Throughout the MSc International Business course you will meet industry experts from our thriving network of professional and business leaders. We collaborate directly with prestigious names such as Lloyds Bank Corporate, London; the Bank of England Midlands Office; HSBC Nottingham; Eversheds; Price Waterhouse Cooper; PKF Cooper Parry; Smiths of Derby; GI Insight, Leicester; and Kitchencraft. Many contribute to our MSc programme with thought-provoking guest lectures.
You will gain fresh insights through company visits, such as behind-the-scenes tours of the iPro Stadium, Derby Arena, Crown Derby and high performance engineering company epm:technology. You can also extend your contacts through networking at Institute of Directors workshops, company taster days and events held by the University’s own Network of Entrepreneurs.
Professional mentoring for career success
As you chart your career direction, you’ll have the opportunity to receive mentoring from influential business figures. Our mentors range from international trade advisors and banking specialists to senior managers from our partner companies – all are happy to share their experiences and insights with you.
Career development planning is an integral part of this course. Every student benefits from the support and advice of a personal tutor who is part of the programme team. You’ll also have access to our first class professional career service even after you’ve graduated.
Our research
Professor Nicholas Apergis is a Research Professor of Economics at the University of Derby. He has recently shared his views on the impact of the government spending review.
Read Nicholas's blog
Read Nicholas's blog
Broaden your skills – and your horizons
We’re committed to delivering a stimulating learning experience which will help you build an impressive portfolio of transferable skills.
You will gain vital experience in using the Bloomberg database, an outstanding global business resource providing financial and company information, economic data and market analysis. Harnessed by companies worldwide, it is used extensively in our teaching and for student research and assessments. As part of your studies, you will be able to gain the Bloomberg Market Concepts Certificate.
You are encouraged to take part in competitions such as the IBM University Business Challenge and the University Trading Challenge. You can contribute to specialist projects in the region: recent examples include an economic impact study of the Buxton Festival and the Derby Low Carbon Initiative. You could even publish your research in the College of Business monthly
Economic Bulletin
which is circulated throughout the region and in our academic journal, Critical Perspectives on Business Management.
Pursue your specialist interests
The culmination of the MSc International Business is your Independent Study where you select a theme which reflects your interests in international business and your career ambitions. This is your chance to gain in-depth research and critical thinking skills which will serve you well in your future career.
The range of topics covered is vast. Among recent examples, our students have investigated knowledge transfer in the South African hotel sector, consumer complaint behaviour in Chinese online shopping, leadership challenges in SMEs in the UK and USA, foreign market analysis for Spanish exporters, and social media in the beauty industry.
An extra award for your CV
In addition, you can work towards a special award which recognises your leadership abilities and enhanced consultancy skills.  As part of the Futures Award in Leadership in International Business, you will undertake extra-curricular activities which strengthen your development as a business professional, including business consultancy work, volunteering, fundraising activities and networking opportunities.
Our Futures Award participants have had the chance to hear from regional industry leaders such as Mel Morris, Chairman of Derby County FC and an initial investor in King Digital Entertainment, the company behind the computer game sensation
Candy Crush
.
New Derby Business School in the city centre
We're building a new Derby Business School, serving as an international centre of excellence. The superb new teaching facilities will build on our established reputation for inspirational teaching and research excellence, as we shape the next generation of qualified business leaders.
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
The MSc International Business course is made up of three stages – Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma and MSc. You will study modules such as:
Postgraduate Certificate
International Economics for Business and Finance
It’s impossible to analyse a country’s domestic economic situation without considering its international economic interactions. On this module, you’ll gain a deeper understanding of the macroeconomics of open economies, looking at international trade, national trade policies, trade theory, trade patterns and their impact on the world economies. You’ll also focus on the international financial environment, capital flows, balance of payments issues, foreign exchange markets and the interdependencies between international transactions and national monetary and fiscal policies.
Market Analysis
This module will develop your skills in the analysis of markets at both the market and consumer level, using quantitative and qualitative data.
Strategic and Financial Performance Management
Build your competence in using financially based performance metrics for strategic impact. The focus is on improving financial performance using the skills generally associated with management accounting at the operational and tactical level and financial management at the tactical and strategic level.
HRM in an International Context
This module provides a deep understanding of the external, internal, business and managerial contexts of contemporary organisations in times of uncertainty and change. You will explore how small, medium, large, multidivisional and multinational organisations respond to these contexts and how HR practitioners make appropriate choices and decisions within the constraints of external and internal forces.
Customer Behaviour and Decision Making
Explore the global and cultural contexts in which consumption takes place, as well as the social context for consumption, the main influences on consumer actions and the impact of strategic marketing decisions on customer behaviour.
Postgraduate Diploma
International Business Theory and Strategy
Examining theories on the globalisation of business, we discuss the major economic shifts and global changes that are impacting on multi- and international organisations and their industries. You’ll focus on how various types of enterprises are expanding, becoming more reliant on international operations and developing strategies to internationalise their domestic operations.
National and International Sale of Goods
You’ll examine the sequence of contracts engaged in the sale and movement of goods at national and international levels and explore the legal consequences of such contracts. This module also covers the finance and payment methods used for the sale of goods both nationally and internationally.
Mergers and Acquisitions
Integrating a wide range of business functions, concepts and theories, you will consider mergers and acquisitions from a variety of global perspectives including organisational, behavioural, finance and regulation. The analysis includes the role of stakeholders and the increasing importance of strategic alliances between large corporations and national governments.
International Finance
Investigate how the global financial system works, examine international sources of finance and suitable investment opportunities, form a critical awareness of the risks associated with international trade, and evaluate how fluctuations in exchange rates affect a business.
Advanced Diversity and Inclusion
This module explores strategic workplace diversity and inclusion in terms of communication and training, addressing workplace behaviour and analysis of trends.  It looks at the role of line managers and other stakeholders in promoting a fair workplace culture, key to managing workplace effectiveness, and examines workforce well-being and engagement as well as the effects of inequality and segregation.
MSc
Independent Study: Research Methods (20 credits)
Independent Study: Dissertation (40 credits)
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
We use a diverse range of teaching and learning methods to provide a motivating study experience. At each level we provide support to help you develop your academic and applied skills and to promote your personal development.
The MSc International Business course entails a combination of campus teaching with study support materials online and access to an extensive range of online journals through our library facilities. You’ll be inspired by a mix of lectures, group work, discussions, workshops, case studies, practical analysis and personal networking. We offer specific guidance on study texts, journals and online study materials.
How you're assessed
We use a wide range of coursework assessment methods, many designed to enhance your transferable skills. You may be developing strategy documents and international business analysis reports, creating presentations and videos, or evaluating information from Bloomberg on international markets and organisations. You may be working alone or as part of a team.
Assessments can also involve essays, building a portfolio of relevant work or computer-based assignments and you may be marked on elements of reflective practice. Some options may have a formal examination.
Who you will meet
You will be taught by an enthusiastic team who are experienced in all aspects of international business and whose research will enrich your learning. They are supported by industry experts, including our Visiting Professor of Banking, Professor Trevor Williams who is Chief Economist at Lloyds Bank PLC.
Key members of our teaching team include:
Dr Eugene Michaels
-
Eugene leads our suite of MSc International Business programmes. He is accredited with the Higher Education Academy and his focus is on encouraging students to apply economic reasoning and critical thinking. His academic interests are centred on behavioural economics and their implications for personal financial wellbeing (particularly pensions) and the application of behavioural insights to macroeconomic and business policymaking. He is the co-author of the College of Business monthly
Economic Bulletin
.
Melanie Powell -
Melanie, who is Programme Leader for our MSc International Business and Finance and our MSc International Business and HRM, is widely published, joint author of a leading European Economics textbook and accredited at a high level with the Higher Education Academy. Her research focuses on applied economics, behavioural economics and financial market behaviour. As a teacher, she is committed to giving students a new way of looking at the world which nurtures their confidence, decision-making skills and a lifelong fascination with economics. She is the co-author of the College of Business monthly
Economic Bulletin
.
Dr Nicola Lynch
-
An applied economist who researches on public policy issues, Nicola leads a number of postgraduate modules and acts as a personal tutor for our MSc students. She is dedicated to providing a learning environment where students can develop academically and personally.
Who will teach you
Dr Eugene Michaels
Programme Leader
Dr Eugene Michaels
An applied economist passionate about teaching, enthusiastic about research and keen on professional engagement. His role within the College of Business, Law and Social Sciences spans the full range of academic activities from teaching...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You'll usually need:
A second class or higher undergraduate degree in a relevant area including: business, economics, marketing, management, accounting or finance, or another degree with sufficient relevant business experience. If your degree is not in a business-related field you may be interested in our
MSc Management programme
.
If English is not your first language, you will also need IELTS 6.5 with 5.5 in each skills area.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to Finance Lab for databases and software for specified assessments
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Binding of dissertation
Optional costs not included in your fees
Printing
Textbooks
Opportunity to apply for CMI student membership and Institute of Directors membership
Directors membership
Some taster events- transport costs
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Full-time 12 month and part-time
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
This MSc International Business opens doors to careers in international trade, transport and logistics corporations, financial institutions involved in trade and investment, firms engaged with business process outsourcing, international trade government agencies and international business consultancy.
Our students have gone on to secure management roles and advanced graduate training positions in high-profile organisations worldwide including HSBC Canada, Ernst & Young and Price Waterhouse Cooper. Some have become consultants with specialist companies while others have taken on general management and marketing roles or have even set up their own international businesses. Inspired by the intellectual challenge of the MSc, a number of our graduates choose to develop academic careers – moving on to PhD research or teacher training.
Ongoing careers support
Throughout your studies, you will benefit from our Personal Tutor Scheme which enables you to reflect on your learning and refine your career ambitions. Our support continues once you’ve completed your course too: you are entitled to further help and guidance from the
Careers and Employment Service
for up to three years after leaving the University.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
International Business and Finance MSc
International Business and HRM MSc
Master of Business Administration - MBA Global