Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/business-courses/international-business-marketing-msc/

International Business and Marketing MSc - Business - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Business
International Business and Marketing MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
International Business and Marketing
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2-3 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, January
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Focus on applied analysis in international business sectors, markets and marketing as well as international policy and global strategy
Network with business leaders who provide guest lectures, consultancy projects, case studies and professional mentoring
Gain vital hands-on experience in our
Financial Markets Lab
, using real-world data for research into companies and markets across the globe
Be inspired by a teaching team with industry experience, extensive contacts and a strong profile for influential research
Learn alongside students from around the world, sharing experiences to deepen your understanding of global business and cultural diversity
You could also study
MSc International Business and Finance
,
MSc International Business
or
MSc International Business and HRM
.
In tune with today’s business world
Leading employers worldwide increasingly expect their senior staff to have a specialist postgraduate degree like our MSc International Business and Marketing. Our MSc is designed to nurture the next generation of forward-thinking, energetic and ambitious business and marketing professionals with a truly global outlook.
This multidisciplinary course is an excellent choice if you want to develop a thorough understanding of the economic, marketing, strategic, legal and cultural factors facing international business. It brings together disciplines such as strategy, international economics, marketing, brand management and law.
Drawing on real-world case studies, you’ll hone your skills in applied research as you conduct wide-ranging business, marketing, international economic and market analysis. You’ll also focus on how to create and implement strategic marketing plans which address business challenges in original ways.
Learning at the cutting edge
Our impressive
Financial Markets Lab
is the ideal setting for you to gain hands-on experience, working with the same information and technology used by financial and business professionals all over the world. You’ll gain vital insights into extracting and analysing real-time market and international economic and financial data, undertaking applied analysis using appropriate statistical software. You will receive training from Bloomberg specialists and can work towards the Bloomberg Market Concepts Certificate alongside your degree to boost your professional profile.
Powerful partnerships to inspire you
The MSc International Business and Marketing is designed and delivered with input from business leaders operating at local, national and international levels. We collaborate directly with prestigious names such as Lloyds Bank, Smiths of Derby, Eversheds, Price Waterhouse Cooper, PKF Cooper Parry, Bloomberg and major marketing analytic firms including GI Solutions Group.
Many of our business partners contribute to the MSc with thought-provoking guest lectures and masterclasses. You’ll hear first-hand what happens at the sharp end of business and marketing across vastly different organisational cultures.
You can also extend your contacts through networking at Institute of Directors workshops, company taster days and events held by our Network of Entrepreneurs. Our annual Marketing 2020 programme – a rare opportunity to hear from some of the country’s leading marketers – sets the scene for the future of the profession.
Company visits will give you fresh insights too. Previous examples include behind-the-scenes tours of the Pride Park Stadium, Derby Arena, Crown Derby and high performance engineering company epm:technology.
Benefit from professional mentoring
We offer you the opportunity to receive mentoring from influential business figures who are happy to share their experiences and insights with you. Our mentors range from international trade experts and banking specialists to senior marketing managers from our partner companies.
Career development planning is an integral part of your studies and you’ll benefit from the support of a personal tutor. You’ll also have access to our first-class professional career service throughout your studies and even after you’ve graduated.
Build an impressive portfolio of skills
You could also contribute to specialist research projects in the region or work in a team of marketing consultants with our partners. Recent examples include an economic impact study of the Buxton Festival, branding ideas for Haddon Hall, and customer research for the Derwent Rural Counselling Service.
In addition, we support you to take part in competitions such as the IBM University Business Challenge and the University Trading Challenge. You could even publish your research in our monthly
Economic Bulletin
and our academic journal,
Critical Perspectives on Business Management.
Our research
Professor Nicholas Apergis is a Research Professor of Economics at the University of Derby. He has recently shared his views on the impact of the government spending review.
Read Nicholas's blog
Read Nicholas's blog
Focus on areas that interest you most
The culmination of the MSc International Business and Marketing is your Independent Study where you investigate a topic that reflects your interests and ambitions. This is your chance to conduct in-depth research, developing critical thinking and problem-solving skills which will serve you well in future. You’ll ask searching questions, critically review literature, analyse data, draw conclusions and make recommendations.
The range of topics covered is vast. Among recent examples, our MSc students have investigated knowledge transfer in the South African hotel sector; international marketing of satellite TV packages in Africa; consumer complaint behaviour in Chinese online shopping; international leadership challenges in SMEs; international marketing in higher education; and how consumers become ‘fans’.
Add a new dimension to your CV
The Futures Award in Leadership in International Business recognises extra-curricular activities which strengthen your development as a business and marketing professional, including consultancy work, volunteering, fundraising activities and networking.
Activities contributing towards the award include attending networking meetings with organisations like the Institute of Directors and Marketing Derby, and events such as Price Waterhouse Cooper Insight Days and PKF Cooper Parry Student Experience Days.
Your Futures Award work could also involve achieving the Bloomberg Market Concepts skills certificate, taking part in international business challenges or joining employability sessions including psychometric testing, interview experience and assessment centre training.
New Derby Business School in the city centre
We're building a new Derby Business School, serving as an international centre of excellence. The superb new teaching facilities will build on our established reputation for inspirational teaching and research excellence, as we shape the next generation of qualified business leaders.
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
To complete the MSc International Business and Marketing, you will take modules such as:
PG Certificate
International Economics for Business and Finance
It is impossible to analyse a country’s domestic economic situation without considering its international economic interactions. On this module, you’ll gain a deeper understanding of the macroeconomics of open economies, looking at international trade, national trade policies, trade theory, trade patterns and their impact on the world economies. You’ll also focus on the international financial environment, capital flows, balance of payments issues, foreign exchange markets and the interdependencies between international transactions and national monetary and fiscal policies.
Market Analysis
We will equip you with the theoretical and practical skills to analyse consumer information and the markets in which organisations operate. This module gives you the microeconomic, statistical and applied marketing skills needed to create market and consumer analysis reports using real data. It features use of the Bloomberg database and its analytical resources as well as basic quantitative analysis, harnessing software such as Excel and SPSS for consumer analysis. By the end of the module, you will have a deeper understanding of how consumer-level data and market analysis can be used together to gain competitive insight.
Intellectual Property in the Digital Age
This module examines the legal principles and procedures relating to ownership, use and control of information in the context of the Internet and other digital media. You will evaluate the appropriateness and adequacy of existing laws and procedures. While our focus is on the UK in its European setting, other national and international jurisdictions – particularly the US – will be covered to reflect how information in the digital age transcends national boundaries.
Postgraduate Diploma
International Business Theory and Strategy
Examining theories on the globalisation of businesses, we discuss the major economic shifts that are impacting on multi- and international organisations and their industries today. This module explains how the opportunities and threats created by these changes lure domestic enterprises into the international business arena. You’ll focus on how various types of enterprises are expanding, becoming more reliant on international operations and developing strategies to internationalise their domestic operations.
Creating and Managing Brand Equity
You’ll build your understanding of the role of branding in positioning an organisation – both internally and externally – in an increasingly crowded marketplace. This module looks at the challenges involved in creating and managing distinctive, sustainable and differentiated identities. You will evaluate various branding strategies and tactics while gaining the skills to develop brands for a range of sector and industry settings.
Advanced Diversity and Inclusion
This module explores strategic workplace diversity and inclusion in terms of communication and training, addressing workplace behaviour and analysis of trends.  It looks at the role of line managers and other stakeholders in promoting a fair workplace culture, key to managing workplace effectiveness, and examines workforce well-being and engagement as well as the effects of inequality and segregation.
You will also choose one optional module such as:
Implementing Integrated Marketing Communication
– drawing on examples of strategies from different parts of the world and different sectors to give you the tools, techniques and ideas for effective marketing communications plans and campaigns
Mergers and Acquisitions
– providing you with a strategic perspective on the management of finance and particularly the use of mergers and acquisitions in business strategy
International Finance
–exploring the way the global financial system functions; international sources of finance and investment opportunities; the risks associated with international trade; and how fluctuations in exchange rates affect a business
MSc
Independent Study: Research Methods (20 credits)
Independent Study: Dissertation (40 credits)
If you exit the course after successfully completing 60 credits, you will be awarded a Postgraduate Certificate. If you exit with 120 credits, you will receive a Postgraduate Diploma. You need to complete a total of 180 credits for the full MSc award.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
The MSc International Business and Marketing entails a combination of campus teaching and online study support. You’ll be inspired by a mix of lectures, group work, discussions, practical workshops, computer lab classes, case study analysis, data analysis and personal networking.
For the Independent Study module, alongside the taught classes, you’ll be allocated an academic supervisor who will support you in developing and planning a relevant research study project.
The course benefits from significant input from external experts and employers, so you will have the opportunity to meet senior professionals working in organisations across international markets and to develop your networking skills.
Entry requirements
You'll usually need:
A second class or higher undergraduate degree in a relevant area including: business, economics, marketing, management, accounting or finance, or another degree with sufficient relevant business experience.
If English is not your first language, you will also need IELTS 6.5 with 5.5 in each skills area.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to Finance Lab for databases and software for specified assessments
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Binding of dissertation
Optional costs not included in your fees
Printing
Textbooks
Opportunity to apply for CMI student membership and Institute of Directors membership
Directors membership
Some taster events - transport costs
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Full-time 12 month and part-time
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
The MSc International Business and Marketing opens doors to careers in customer-focused roles in global markets and organisations, or could pave the way to promotion if you are already employed in a relevant position. Because it combines high-level marketing skills with in-depth knowledge of business from a global perspective, you will graduate with a respected qualification which helps you stand out in an increasingly competitive job market.
You will be well qualified to apply for graduate entry training in international management or marketing management, international business consultancies or marketing agencies.
Derby graduates have gone on to secure senior roles and advanced graduate training positions in high-profile organisations including HSBC Canada, Ernst & Young, Price Waterhouse Cooper, Unilever in Malawi and UBS Poland. Some have joined leading marketing agencies, have become consultants with specialist companies or have even set up their own businesses.
Inspired by the intellectual challenge of the MSc, you may also choose to develop an academic career – moving on to PhD research or teacher training.
Ongoing careers support
Throughout your studies, you will benefit from our Personal Tutor Scheme which enables you to reflect on your learning and refine your career ambitions.
Our support continues once you’ve completed your course too: you are entitled to further help and guidance from the
Careers and Employment Service
for up to three years after leaving the University.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
International Business MSc
International Business and HRM MSc
Marketing Management MSc