Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/health-social-community-work-courses/integrative-health-and-social-care-msc-online/

Integrative Health and Social Care MSc - Health, Social and Community Work - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Health, Social and Community Work
Integrative Health and Social Care MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Integrative Health and Social Care
MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 2 - 3 years
UK fee
£9,450
(2024/25)
‡
International fee
£9,450
(2024/25)
‡
Start dates
September, January, May
Location
Online
Meet the demands of modern day health and social care with this online MSc in Integrative Health and Social Care course. Designed in consultation with leading health and social care specialists, our MSc offers you a flexible study route to obtain a postgraduate qualification that can be tailored to your individual needs and interests.
First class health and social care
By incorporating current research and government initiatives we have produced a stimulating, relevant and practical programme that will enable you to deliver effective healthcare, inter-agency working, policy development, and strategic direction in a range of disciplines to patients, clients, families and the community, anywhere in the world.
Destined for success
Your University of Derby Online Learning course is specially designed to support your career development and to allow you to fit your online studies around work and family commitments. It’s flexible to allow you to study when and where it suits you but has a structured study pattern, with assessment deadlines to help you stay on track to succeed.
You’ll be taught by experienced academics with extensive, up-to-date industry expertise and have opportunities to debate and collaborate with students from around the world, enhancing your learning experience.
All of your uniquely designed learning resources are available online 24/7 so you simply need access to the Internet and the motivation to learn. From registration to graduation your dedicated, friendly online learning team is here to help you succeed.
How long will it take to complete?
The flexibility of this course means you can complete the full MSc (180 credits) within 3 years. Alternatively you can complete each 60 credit level (eg PG Cert) within 12 months, a great opportunity to build your CPD.
From top-up to masters
Working 12-hour shifts in a hospital meant Lisa Libreri had no time for a traditional university experience. Then a colleague recommended flexible, online study with the University of Derby Online Learning.
Read Lisa's story
Read Lisa's story
What you will study
To work towards an individual named Postgraduate Certificate and build your CPD (only 3 modules), you can choose to undertake the Leadership and Management in Health and Social Care pathway.
Alternatively you can achieve a Postgraduate Diploma (6 modules) or MSc in Integrative Health and Social Care, choosing modules on topics that are most relevant to your career or personal preferences.
You can
view the study plan for this online course
.
If we have insufficient numbers of students interested in an optional module, this may not be offered. In addition, where demand is high, some modules may be subject to a cap.
The course is designed to offer you the flexibility to choose the most relevant pathway based on your own career aspirations and interests.
You will need to complete the following core modules and then choose from the list of optional modules depending on your preferred pathway or specialism. All optional modules are 20 credits.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
Pace of study
The academic year is made up of three 10-week terms, known as trimesters. We recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete one 20-credit module over a 10-week trimester.
If you opt to undertake the accelerated study plan whereby you will study two modules in one trimester, we recommend 40 hours of study per week.
Should you decide to study on the accelerated rate you should ensure that you have the capacity to fully engage with your studies and achieve the best grades and final award. If you choose to study on the accelerated rate, you will need to balance approximately 40 hours of study per week alongside your professional and personal life and commitments.
It may be useful to consider studying one module at the standard rate of study before deciding whether to then increase to the accelerated rate of study.
There will be 1/2 virtual classrooms over the 10 week trimester and if you are unable to attend you will be able to download the session to view in your own time.
Assessment method
This course is assessed through 100% coursework with a range of methods, such as essays, research reports, presentations, group work and practical reports.
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Get a taste of the course content
Our Integrative Health and Social Care MSc course taster will give you an idea of how online learning works. It includes a selection of content from a course module so you can see what some of our learning material looks like.
You will need to complete a short form to access the course taster.
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Entry requirements
You will normally need the following:
A bachelor’s degree or equivalent in an appropriate subject, plus
Work experience in an appropriate subject area following on from your bachelor’s level qualification, plus
Current employment in an arena which will enable the achievement of the individual module learning outcomes eg voluntary, public, private, community, acute health and social care arenas.
If you have an International qualification, it will need to be mapped to the UK equivalent registration to ensure that you are entering the programme with at least 120 academic credits at level 6.
English language qualifications
If English is not your first language, or you have not successfully completed your highest level of qualification in English, you will need an English language qualification. For this course you will need at least one of the following:
IELTS 7.0
TOEFL: 600 (paper based), 250 (computer based) or 100 (internet based)
Pearson Test of Academic English: 66
Cambridge Advanced Certificate: Pass
London Tests of English: we accept level 4 for undergraduate courses
International GCE O Level English Language: Grade C
International GCSE English/English as a Second Language: Grade C
Find out more about our English language requirements
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£1,050
7 (six 20 credit modules and one 60 credit module)
£9,450
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£1,080
7 (six 20 credit modules and one 60 credit module)
£9,720
About your fees
This figure would be the total cost of this course based on the fee in the current academic year. However, please note that fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase if your course lasts longer than one year.
If you are required to undertake any associate study or additional study as a condition of your offer for the programme, please be aware that the cost for this may be in addition to the programme cost stated above.
Flexible payment plans available
Choose from
two payment plan options
:
Pay monthly and only for the modules you are studying
Pay your full course fees upfront and avoid annual increases
Masters funding options
Depending on where you are from in the UK or EU, and on your pace of study, you may be eligible for a
postgraduate student loan
. Accessible through Student Finance, this is a non-income based loan to help with living costs and tuition fees whilst studying your masters programme.
If you are considering applying for a student loan, please also see our additional guidance on
Loans for Online Students
.
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out more about the Alumni discount
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Written reference supplied on headed paper from either a manager, supervisor, tutor or teacher
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Application deadlines
All of our online courses have set start dates throughout the year. We require time to review your application and get back to you with a response before your course starts. Take a look at
information regarding applying for an online course
to see full details of deadlines and term dates.
Careers
A postgraduate qualification will help you to compete in today's market. This course is centred on providing first class care in the health and social care sector and will enable you to develop your skills and expertise.
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
Leadership and Management in Health and Social Care Postgraduate Certificate
Leading Interprofessional Practice Education Postgraduate Certificate