Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/workforce-development-pharmacists/

Integrated Urgent Care Workforce Development Programme for Pharmacists - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Integrated Urgent Care Workforce Development Programme for Pharmacists
Apply now
Apply now
Professional Course
Integrated Urgent Care Workforce Development Programme for Pharmacists
Apply
Apply
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Next course date
TBC
Duration
Up to 12 months
Location
Distance learning
Lecture/workshop days - dates/times
TBC
Tutorial dates/times
Induction: TBC
Course description
HEE (Health Education England) has procured this training to support pharmacists working in virtual contact centre environments to be delivered by the University of Derby.
Pharmacists working in these settings are being offered this role -specific training as professional development
It is delivered as a flexible 12-month workplace-based and online course, with a recommended time commitment of up to 5 hours per week.
Each student will receive an individual training plan informed by an initial training needs analysis and discussion with course tutors.
The tailored course, lasting up to 12 months, includes shared learning on a range of topics to enable participants to take a lead in helping to improve the access, quality and safety of the patient care.
Structure, certificates and assessment
What you'll study
The course starts with fundamentals, such as communication, telephone consultation, history-taking, policy, ethical, legal and professional issues. This is followed by a more in-depth look at the consultation, history taking and symptoms for a range of minor ailments or commonly presenting conditions with a focus on safe and effective decision making. The last stage is to consolidate and disseminate your learning through developing as an emerging leader in your areas of specialism.
The training will be delivered by the University of Derby through a blended learning platform, offering a mixture of online and face to face learning. There will be an induction day, followed by the online learning programme, with opportunities for online or placement visit support.
There are several entry points for cohorts over the length of the contract, which ends in April 2020.
How you will learn
The training will be delivered by the University of Derby through a blended learning platform, offering a mixture of online and face to face learning. There will be an initial training needs analysis and induction, followed by the online learning programme, with opportunities for online or placement visit support.
There are several entry points for cohorts over the length of the contract, which ends in April 2020.
Key features
Some key features of the course include:
Online learning environment:
Flexible online learning: guided study, activities and facilitated discussions;
Elements of the IUC functionality may be replicated within the learning environment
Competence-based and simulation activities to develop confidence
Online Tutors; facilitated network for peer support; Live Webinars
Placement Support
Support for placement supervisors and practice-based assessment
Portfolio development with links to competence frameworks
Support provided via: online, phone, and/or placement visits
Each student to have named practice link tutor
Portfolio assessment and feedback
IT and academic support
Support for Technical difficulties
Managing / controlling software updates
Academic guidance and support
Entry requirements
Pharmacists recruited into an IUC CAS as part of NHS England’s Integrated Urgent Care (IUC) Pharmacists Programme are eligible for this training if they work for a minimum of 0.4WTE (equivalent to two days or 15 hours a week) in the IUC CAS setting. Once employers have appointed the pharmacist, the individuals will be directed by their employers to this website to apply. All applications will have to be confirmed by the employer.
Fees and funding
This programme is fully funded.
How to apply
All applicants need the verified support of an employing organisation who have been successful in obtaining sponsored places for this programme. Please also complete the
professional information form
, indicating your details, employer and practice-based support.
It is advised to complete this first, so you can upload a copy of it for the personal statement section of your UOD application.
You will then need to complete the
University of Derby application
.
These will be reviewed, checked for eligibility, and if the criteria are met, you will be contacted with further details.
Further information can be found on the
Health Education England
website.
Empower your workforce with block bookings
Take advantage of a short courses block booking to upskill your employees. Our short courses run on-campus and online and include new legislation and other up-to-the-minute issues. Get in touch today and we will tailor a package to meet the needs of your business.
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Jill Gould
IUC@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 592381
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.