Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/hospitality-management-courses/international-hospitality-management-ba-hons-with-placement-year/

International Hospitality Management BA (Hons) with Placement Year - Hospitality Management - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Hospitality Management
International Hospitality Management BA (Hons) with Placement Year
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
International Hospitality Management with Placement Year
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
N863
Start date
September
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
The highlights
You'll learn how to manage hospitality venues and so much more: we'll also give you the leadership and entrepreneurial skills needed to excel in the hospitality industry - a sector that needs reshaping and rebuilding after the Covid pandemic
You'll learn how hospitality, tourism and events overlap to make up the wider 'visitor economy', and work closely with Events and Tourism students - this will broaden your career options
You can study abroad for a semester in year two, and take a placement year before year three
This programme is part of our Centre for Contemporary Hospitality and Tourism, which has been awarded the prestigious
International Centre of Excellence (ICE) in Tourism and Hospitality accreditation
All modules align with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, so you will learn to think about the social and environmental impacts of hospitality and balance this against the economic benefits it brings
4
th
in the UK for Hospitality and Leisure Management
QS World University Ranking 2024
33
rd
in the world for Hospitality and Leisure Management
QS World University Rankings 2024
Future focussed
This BA (Hons) International Hospitality Management degree is designed to give you the management and operational skills needed to succeed in the hospitality industry of the 2020s and beyond. We have a track record of running successful hospitality management degrees, and now we've updated our curriculum to be even more relevant to the industry today.
In particular, we've included more content about business management, new technology, entrepreneurship and sustainability, so you graduate as a modern, adaptable and creative thinker who is not afraid to challenge the status quo and lead on change.
We've also redesigned the modules so that instead of studying specific modules in Finance, Marketing, HR and the other business disciplines, we teach these subjects throughout the course at points where they are most relevant. For instance, you will build your financial knowledge as you learn to create business plans, and you will develop HR and leadership skills as you learn how to change and transform an organisation.
Boost your employability with a placement year
You’ll have the opportunity to take a placement year to put the skills you’ve learned into practice in a real-world environment. We'll support you to find your placement and throughout your year in industry. Placements allow you to gain valuable experience to add to your CV, make industry contacts and help you to narrow down what kind of role you may be interested in after graduation.
Hospitality and the visitor economy
This programme is part of our Centre for Contemporary Hospitality and Tourism, which is an accredited International Centre of Excellence (ICE). Because of this, it shares key generic modules with our International Tourism Management and Event Management degrees, so you can appreciate how these three specialisms work together to make up the 'visitor economy' (the services and experiences that attract visitors to a destination.)
You will still focus on hospitality - through activities, assessments and specialist modules - but you'll also develop broader business management knowledge and get the chance to take optional modules in event management and tourism subjects. It means you'll have a wider skillset when you graduate and a greater choice of career paths and postgraduate courses.
Theron's journey from Caribbean roots to hospitality entrepreneur
Once Theron Niles discovered the excitement of being in the hospitality industry, he knew that was the path he wanted to follow. He has now built a hospitality career in both the Caribbean and the UK after graduating from our BA (Hons) International Hospitality Management degree.
Read Theron's story
Read Theron's story
Key areas of learning
You'll cover the full range of modern-day hospitality management and business management skills. You'll learn to problem-solve and adapt to changing external environments, create innovative hospitality 'concepts' and customer experiences while considering sustainability, and plan, manage and evaluate projects. You'll also use digital technology throughout the course.
We'll cover topics such as the hotel industry, including luxury hotels and resorts, revenue management strategies and tools, and operations management. We'll look at many emerging issues - for instance, the impact of new technology on hospitality, such as simulation, self-service technology, and using AR and VR to enhance the guest experience. You'll discover how hospitality can be made more sustainable and be based on 'circular economy' principles: designing out waste and pollution, keeping products and materials in use for as long as possible, and regenerating natural systems.
There are also interesting optional modules in areas such as hotel data analytics, menu design and sensory evaluation, talent management and consumer behaviour.
We'll teach you key transferable skills, such as how to research, analyse and present data, how to launch a new business, manage finances and lead teams. You will also build up knowledge of current hospitality software, including POS and inventory control. Overall, you'll graduate with a diverse skillset, a 'can-do' attitude and the knowledge and confidence to go out and make your mark in the hospitality industry.
Practical projects
Throughout the course you'll be asked to complete a wide range of tasks and activities that a hospitality manager might do, so you build up practical experience and can apply what you're learning.
For example, you might be asked to design and deliver a hospitality experience for a specific customer group, research and analyse future trends, create a video to promote a customer experience package, design a new menu, or develop and pitch business proposals.
Sometimes employers will come in to set challenges that are based on a real problem faced by their own organisation. Working with them can be a great way to build up experience of the industry and increase your network.
Studying abroad and overseas trips
In the second year, you will get the opportunity to study abroad. You'll be able to choose from a range of countries, such as the Netherlands, Germany, Thailand, Bali and South Africa. It's a great way to experience a different culture, gain a new perspective on your subject, and have an adventure!
There are also plenty of opportunities to take part in study trips overseas and in the UK, with Tourism and Events students.
See which locations we've recently visited and what we got up to.
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You will build up your knowledge and skills through learning activities like:
lectures - delivered by our tutors and guest speakers
seminars and tutorials
practical projects
analysis of international case studies
research and independent study
industry days, conferences and competitions
fieldtrips in the UK and overseas
placements and internships
networking and mentoring
How you will be assessed
We use a range of creative assessment methods that are designed to stretch and challenge you. They are based around the key duties of hospitality managers and will include digital technology as much as possible. Tasks might include analysing information and conducting research, writing business reports and essays, working in teams to create new ideas and projects, and delivering presentations.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Leonard Cseh
Programme Leader
Leonard Cseh
Leonard Cseh is a senior lecturer in the school of Centre of Contemporary Hospitality and Tourism (CCHT) within the Derby Business School. He works with national and international employers for placements, internships and graduate oppo...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Any trips that are deemed to be mandatory that form part of your programme and or modular learning which is inclusive of all essential costs. Trips are linked to the programme and module learning outcomes and are an integral part of the academic and professional development on your course. You may be visiting professional conferences or exhibitions, industry partners, professional development workshops or collaborative partners
An additional short professional course. Examples include first aid training, level 3 food safety (all are subject to availability)
Optional costs not included in your fees
Optional international field trip to a new destination annually: Including travel, accommodation and breakfast, and any entry fees. Approximate cost £500
Any travel to and from airport must be funded and organised individually
Study and work abroad opportunities, costs vary depending on destination
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
You'll graduate from this degree as a confident and creative hospitality specialist with strong business acumen and great awareness of the wider visitor economy. If you want to launch your own business or work for a start-up, you'll have the enterprising attitude and attributes that are needed, including resilience, self-awareness and independent thinking.
If you prefer to work for an employer, you'll be well-suited to a range of roles in the hospitality, event or tourism sectors, as well as allied industries such as marketing, PR or HR. You could initially apply for roles such as Food and Beverage or Event Supervisor, Front Office or Housekeeping Supervisor, Assistant Restaurant Manager, Graduate Trainee Hotel Manager, Business Development Manager or Marketing Executive. However, several years into your career, we think you'll be leading, inspiring and shaping the future of the visitor economy.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Other courses you might like
International Hospitality Management BA (Hons)