Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/business-courses/international-business-hrm-msc/

International Business and HRM MSc - Business - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Business
International Business and HRM MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
International Business and HRM
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2-3 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, January
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Deepen your understanding of business and human resource management in an international context
Gain a highly regarded masters level qualification together with vital employability skills for a successful career in business or HR
Develop your knowledge of economics, international business, management, employment law and HRM to ease your transition to a high-level role
Network with international business leaders and influential HR professionals who provide guest lectures, consultancy projects, case studies and professional mentoring
Learn alongside students from around the world, gaining a greater awareness of cultural diversity and different perspectives on international business
This course is accredited by the
Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development
(CIPD) and puts you on the fast track to a qualification which raises your professional standing and improves your career prospects. It fully prepares you to meet the CPD requirements of the HR profession
You could also study
MSc International Business and Finance
,
MSc International Business and Marketing
or
MSc International Business
.
With the world connected as never before, exciting career opportunities are emerging for dynamic, confident professionals with a thorough grasp of international business and an understanding of how HRM can be harnessed as a driving force for growth.
A course to match your career aspirations
Leading employers worldwide increasingly expect their staff – experienced professionals and new recruits alike – to have a specialist degree such as an MSc.
This MSc International Business and HRM course is highly suitable if you want to develop an international business career in HRM or to work closely with talent management and training specialists in global organisations. In particular it is ideal if you have:
studied Business, including HRM, and are looking to develop more specialist HRM skills
studied HRM but want to sharpen your international business focus
have work experience of HRM in international business and would like to gain a focused postgraduate degree.
Strategic knowledge for today’s business world
Our MSc International Business and HRM course brings together disciplines such as economics, international business and strategy, international employment law, leadership and talent management.
You’ll gain a thorough understanding of business analysis and strategy in a global context. At the same time, you’ll hone your expertise in evaluating HRM decisions and operations in international organisations. Drawing on real-world case studies, you’ll also develop impressive skills in applied research.
100
%
overall satisfaction - MSc International Business and HRM
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
High-profile partnerships
Throughout the course you will meet industry experts from our thriving network of professional and business leaders. We collaborate directly with prestigious names such as Lloyds Bank Corporate, London; the Bank of England Midlands Office; HSBC Nottingham;Eversheds; Price Waterhouse Cooper; PKF Cooper Parry; Smiths of Derby; GI Insight, Leicester; and Kitchencraft. Many contribute to our MSc programme with thought-provoking guest lectures.
Leading figures from the HRM profession will share their knowledge with you. You’ll be invited to masterclasses and guest lectures delivered by influential thinkers such as our Visiting Professors in HRM, Dr Linda Holbeche and Professor Lynette Harris.
We work closely with the CIPD at both national and local levels. They hold panel events at the University where you can make new contacts in a professional forum. You’ll hear first-hand what happens at the sharp end of the HR business across many different organisational cultures. You can also extend your contacts through networking at Institute of Directors workshops, company taster days and events held by the University’s own Network of Entrepreneurs.
Professional mentoring for career success
As you chart your career direction, you’ll have the opportunity to receive mentoring from key business figures. Our mentors range from international trade advisors and banking specialists to senior HR managers from our partner companies – all are happy to share their experiences and insights with you.
Career development planning is an integral part of this course. Every student benefits from the support and advice of a personal tutor who is part of the programme team. You’ll also have access to our first class professional career service even after you’ve graduated.
Broaden your skills – and your horizons
We’re committed to delivering a stimulating learning experience which will help you build an impressive portfolio of transferable skills.
You will gain vital experience in using the Bloomberg database, an outstanding global business resource providing financial and company information, economic data and market analysis. Harnessed by companies worldwide, it is used extensively in our teaching and for student research and assessments. As part of your studies, you can gain the Bloomberg Market Concepts Certificate.
You are encouraged to take part in competitions such as the IBM University Business Challenge. You can also contribute to specialist projects in the region: recent examples include an economic impact study of the Buxton Festival and the Derby Low Carbon Initiative. You could even publish your research in the College of Business monthly
Economic Bulletin
which is circulated throughout the region and in our academic journal,
Critical Perspectives on Business Management
.
Financial Markets Lab
University of Derby students have access to real live financial data and can experience what it’s like to work on a trading floor in our Financial Markets Lab.
Explore our Financial Markets Lab
Explore our Financial Markets Lab
Pursue your specialist interests
The culmination of the MSc International Business and HRM is your Independent Study where you select a theme which reflects your career ambitions and your interests in international HRM. This is your chance to gain in-depth research and critical thinking skills which will serve you well in your future career.
The range of topics covered is vast. Among recent examples, our students have investigated knowledge transfer in the South African hospitality sector; employee commitment in a Vietnamese technology firm; and an international comparison of trust in management.
An extra award for your CV
You can work towards a special award which recognises your leadership abilities and enhanced consultancy skills.  As part of the Futures Award in Leadership in International Business, you will undertake extra-curricular activities which strengthen your development as a business and HRM professional, including business consultancy work, volunteering, fundraising activities and networking opportunities.
Our Futures Award participants have had the chance to hear from regional industry leaders such as Mel Morris, Chairman of Derby County FC and an initial investor in King Digital Entertainment, the company behind the computer game sensation
Candy Crush
.
New Derby Business School in the city centre
We're building a new Derby Business School, serving as an international centre of excellence. The superb new teaching facilities will build on our established reputation for inspirational teaching and research excellence, as we shape the next generation of qualified business leaders.
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
The MSc International Business and HRM course is made up of three stages – Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma and MSc. You will study modules such as:
Postgraduate Certificate
International Economics for Business and Finance
It is impossible to analyse a country’s domestic economic situation without considering its international economic interactions. On this module, you’ll gain a deeper understanding of the macroeconomics of open economies, looking at international trade, national trade policies, trade theory, trade patterns and their impact on the world economies. You’ll also focus on the international financial environment, capital flows, balance of payments issues, foreign exchange markets and the interdependencies between international transactions and national monetary and fiscal policies.
Market Analysis
This module will develop your skills in the analysis of markets at both the market and consumer level, using quantitative and qualitative data.
Strategic and Financial Performance Management
You will build your competence in using financially based performance metrics for strategic impact. The focus is on improving financial performance using the skills generally associated with management accounting at the operational and tactical level and financial management at the tactical and strategic level.
Leading, Managing and Developing People
Evaluate major contemporary research and debates in HRM, including how HR practices influence business outcomes and how the value of the HR function can be measured. Covering issues of leadership, professionalism and ethics, this module looks at HRM developments in different sectors and different forms of organisations and enterprises. You will consider themes such as change management, flexible working initiatives, motivation and engagement within the workplace, the importance of the line manager role and the increasing emphasis on team working within organisations.
HRM in an International Context
This module provides a deep understanding of the external, internal, business and managerial contexts of contemporary organisations in times of uncertainty and change. You will explore how small, medium, large, multidivisional and multinational organisations respond to these contexts and how HR practitioners make appropriate choices and decisions within the constraints of external and internal forces.
Postgraduate Diploma
International Business Theory and Strategy
Examining theories on the globalisation of business, we discuss the major economic shifts and global changes that are impacting on multi- and international organisations and their industries. You’ll focus on how various types of enterprises are expanding, becoming more reliant on international operations and developing strategies to internationalise their domestic operations.
International Resourcing and Talent Development
The growth of human capital has been identified as a key driver of competitive advantage for organisations. On this module, you’ll examine a range of talent management strategies to attract, identify, develop, engage, retain and deploy individuals with high potential. You’ll look at how talent can be fostered through learning and development interventions and how to evaluate the impact of such interventions on the ‘bottom line’.
Advanced Diversity and Inclusion
This module explores strategic workplace diversity and inclusion in terms of communication and training, addressing workplace behaviour and analysis of trends. It focuses on historical and the present-day role of line managers and other stakeholders in promoting a fair workplace culture key to managing workplace effectiveness. Through the lens of UK legislation, and international equivalents, this module also covers how strategic actions and decisions go beyond legal compliance as it focuses on the well-being and engagement of the workforce and the effects of inequality and segregation.
Strategic Employment Relations
This module aims to focus on different perspectives of employment relations, power, authority and the cooperation and conflict that varies between workplaces. The role that institutions beyond the workplace play in shaping people management policy and practice within organisations
will be explored
, including legal, ethical, and moral approaches to problem resolution.
In addition, students will u
nderstand how people professionals work with employees and trade unions to mitigate organisational risks.
MSc
Independent Study: Research Methods (20 credits)
Independent Study: Dissertation (40 credits)
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Throughout the MSc International Business and HRM course you’ll encounter a diverse range of teaching and learning methods which provide a motivating study experience. At each level we provide support to help you develop your academic and applied skills and to promote your personal development.
You’ll be inspired by a mix of lectures, group work, discussions, workshops, case studies, practical data analysis and personal networking. We offer specific guidance on study texts and online study materials.
How you'll be assessed
We use a wide range of coursework assessment methods, many designed to enhance your transferable skills. Formats include computer-based tests, research reports, practical activities, presentations, essays and case study analysis.
Some modules are also assessed with an examination.
Who you'll meet
You will be taught by an enthusiastic team who are experienced in all aspects of international business and whose research will enrich your learning. They are supported by industry experts, including our Visiting Professors in HRM, Dr Linda Holbeche and Professor Lynette Harris, and our Visiting Professor of Banking, Professor Trevor Williams who is Chief Economist at Lloyds Bank PLC.
Our teaching team includes:
Melanie Powell -
Melanie is Programme Leader for both this course and our MSc International Business and Finance. She is widely published, joint author of a leading European Economics textbook and accredited at a high level with the Higher Education Academy. Her research focuses on applied economics, behavioural economics and financial market behaviour. As a teacher, she is committed to giving students a new way of looking at the world which nurtures their confidence, decision-making skills and a lifelong fascination with economics. She is the co-author of the College of Business monthly
Economic Bulletin
.
Dr Eugene Michaels
-
Eugene leads our suite of MSc International Business programmes. He is accredited with the Higher Education Academy and his focus is on encouraging students to apply economic reasoning and critical thinking. His academic interests are centred on behavioural economics and their implications for personal financial wellbeing (particularly pensions) and the application of behavioural insights to macroeconomic and business policymaking. He is the co-author of the College of Business monthly
Economic Bulletin
.
Dr Nicola Lynch
-
An applied economist who researches on public policy issues, Nicola leads a number of postgraduate modules and acts as a personal tutor for our MSc students. She is dedicated to providing a learning environment where students can develop academically and personally.
Sheena Bevitt
-
Sheena is Senior Lecturer in Human Resource Management. Her research areas include career transitioning, especially from middle to senior level roles. Sheena is a Chartered Member of the CIPD.
Sue Jennings
-
Sue is a Senior Lecturer in Law whose research interests centre on the strategic operation of employment law in the workplace.
Entry requirements
You'll usually need:
A second class or higher undergraduate degree in a relevant area including: business, economics, management, HRM, or another degree with sufficient relevant business experience.
If English is not your first language, you will also need IELTS 6.5 with 5.5 in each skills area
A desire to develop your theoretical understanding of HRM.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to Finance Lab for databases and software for specified assessments
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Binding of dissertation
Optional costs not included in your fees
Printing
Textbooks
Opportunity to apply for CMI student membership and Institute of Directors membership
Directors membership
Some taster events- transport costs
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Full-time 12 month and part-time
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
This MSc International Business and HRM opens doors to HRM careers in a wide range of international organisations. On completion of the course, you’ll be ideally placed to join management training programmes in major companies worldwide.
Our students have gone on to secure management roles and advanced graduate training positions in high-profile organisations including HSBC Canada, Ernst & Young and Price Waterhouse Cooper. Some have become consultants with specialist companies while others have taken on general management roles or have even set up their own international businesses.
You will be highly suited to HRM roles in any organisation with a global outlook – whatever the size or sector. You could, for instance, harness your specialist knowledge of international law, training and talent management to support a small-scale exporting company. The course also gives you a platform to gain further professional qualifications as you take your career forward. Inspired by the intellectual challenge of the MSc, a growing number of graduates also choose to develop academic careers – moving on to PhD research or teacher training.
Ongoing careers support
Throughout your studies, you will benefit from our personal tutor scheme which enables you to reflect on your learning and refine your career ambitions. Our support continues once you’ve completed your course too: you are entitled to further help and guidance from the
Careers and Employment Service
for up to three years after leaving the University.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
International Business MSc
International Business and Finance MSc
Human Resource Management (Top-Up) MSc
Master of Business Administration - MBA Global