Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/architecture-architectural-technology-courses/interior-architecture-and-venue-design-ba-hons-foundation/

Interior Architecture and Venue Design with Foundation Year BA (Hons) - Architectural Technologies and Interior Architecture - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Architectural Technologies and Interior Architecture
Interior Architecture and Venue Design with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Interior Architecture and Venue Design with Foundation Year
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years (5 years with a placement year)
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
K111
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
Interested in a career where you can translate your design ideas into reality? This degree equips you with the skills and knowledge you need to design exciting venues ranging from bars, restaurants and entertainment complexes to hotels, shops and museums.
Build all the skills you need to excel in rewarding roles with architectural and interior design practices, major construction companies and local authorities
Gain valuable workplace experience – our students have been as far afield as Los Angeles and Singapore on practice placements
Undertake real-world projects based upon actual sites
Showcase your work in exhibitions, locally and in our Student Showcase
You can also take the
BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Venue Design
without a foundation year.
95
%
of students agreed they explored ideas and concepts in depth
BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Venue Design - National Student Survey 2024
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Interior Architecture and Venue Design at Derby
This degree covers a wide range of venue designs that offer enormous potential, from the interior architecture of bars, restaurants and multi-purpose venue spaces to the design of hotels, resorts and residential developments. You will look at the planning and design of live performance spaces, social and community places, exhibition spaces, galleries, brand retail outlets and museums, to name just a few examples.
A thorough understanding
During your studies, you will be constantly challenged to conceptualise, investigate and develop the design of three dimensional spaces.  You will gain a thorough understanding of the ways in which architectural and interior design histories and theories, as well as existing physical and cultural contexts, inform design processes, programmes and proposals.
We foster an ethos where you will produce socially, culturally and environmentally responsive design proposals, drawing upon best practice and the wide-ranging expertise of our teaching teams.
Professional credibility
On successful completion of the Foundation Year you will enter onto
BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Venue Design
, which is accredited by the
Chartered Society of Designers (CSD)
and affiliated with the
British Institute of Interior Design (BIID)
, so you will develop all the knowledge and skills required to become professionally qualified.
Broaden your horizons
You can gain valuable industry experience on a work placement between stages two and three of your honours degree studies. This placement could be taken abroad and may provide a salary.
Good recent examples being Hallum Herbert, Jenny Ritz and Thayna Couto De Oliveira all heading out to California for placements working in Santa Monica and Pasadena.
For the last several years we have been working with
Down to Earth Derby
, on nature-based regeneration and connecting communities with nature and growing food. A major project we are working on at the moment, with the Eden Project, is a community garden on part of Sturgess Fields, a site owned by the University between Kedleston Road and Markeaton Street sites. The plan is to create a New Commons that will be managed with the community. There are opportunities for you to work on this project, designing sustainable buildings and structures.
Derby Property Summit
Over the past few years, students have also collaborated with
Marketing Derby
at the Derby Property Summit events to showcase their final year projects that are based on ideas and designs for an area within the city of Derby.
View Marketing Derby in Collaboration with the University of Derby for #DPS2021 video transcript
Strong employer links
Our courses are designed with the help of employers, so they are focused on preparing you to hit the ground running from day one in your career. Our industry partnerships mean that you will have the chance to see real-world projects at first hand and go on study trips in the UK and Europe. You will also be inspired by guest lectures delivered by experts from industry. Our longstanding links with companies – both locally and overseas – will inspire and enthuse you. Our associations span major names such as Akarstudios, Virgin Atlantic, Interserve, Benoy Architects, Jacobs, Bouygues UK, Pick Everard, Lathams, WCAC Group, Maber, Morrisons Design Ltd., CPMG and Akar Studios, and Millar Management.
Expert teaching
Throughout your course you'll be taught by our research-active academics who have connections to industry and bring their expert knowledge to their teaching sessions. You'll be taught by:
Dr Timo Kapsalis
: Timo is a Lecturer in Architectural Design and Technology, with international experience as a practitioner and a research background. He
specialises in design technology that is geared towards the application of advanced techniques and tools in enhancing both the efficiency and efficacy of design processes in the built environment.
Dr Boris Ceranic
:
Boris is an experienced academic, practitioner and researcher. He spent ten years on the construction sites and in his own design and build practice, prior to entering academia. Since then, he has remained research and practice active, publishing on an international level and chairing panels at international conferences, undertaking PhD supervision and examination, and engaging in externally funded research projects and consultancy. He has a wide range of research interests including sustainable architecture and low energy design, healthy buildings, modular design and construction technologies, fire research and feng shui.
Dr Eleni Tracada
: Eleni graduated from the Faculty of Architecture of the University of Florence, Italy in 1983. Once
qualified she worked as a self-employed architect in Florence from 1983 to 1993. After moving to the UK and being awarded a Masters of Arts in Interior Design in 1996, she went into teaching architecture. Her research interests include recovered landscapes, the history and philosophy of architecture, and sustainable buildings and communities.
Excellent Facilities
As a student studying the BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Venue Design course, you'll have access to a wide range of resources and facilities including a Design Studio with a modelling area containing computers with design software, an A3 scanner, a 3D printer, light boxes, a hot wire cutter, guillotines, hot glue guns, large steel rules and cutting mats, binding machine, drawing boards and modelling tables. In our Workshop area, there are two laser cutters vacuum former, along with wood and metal working areas, and a spray booth. In addition to this, there is a further laser cutter as well as large format plotters available in the Digital Design Hub. The Media Hub also provides a loan facility for cameras, digital measuring devices, as well as other environmental recording equipment. You'll also have access to the Arts and Design library in Britannia Mill.
Student concepts wow real estate developer for PEAK Gateway
Students studying Architectural Degrees and Masters level programmes have worked with Milligan to create inspiring concepts that explore the future vision for the PEAK Gateway development.
Find out more about the project
Find out more about the project
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Real world learning
During the course, you will have the opportunity to take a placement year as well as UK and European study trips. You will also be encouraged to display your work in exhibitions, both locally and in our Student Showcase. Our annual
Student Showcase
is a great way to showcase your work to prospective employers and the public. You can take a look at some of our student projects in our
online exhibit
.
The majority of your studio projects are based upon actual local sites so you could get involved in current projects with real-life clients.
How you are assessed
You will be assessed in a variety of ways to help you develop your presentation and communication skills, which are essential for professional practice.
Student Showcase 2022
We're showcasing the work of some of our talented Architectural Technologies and Interior Architecture students to celebrate their achievements over the 2021-22 academic year.
View the Student Showcase
View the Student Showcase
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Timo Kapsalis
Programme Leader
Dr Timo Kapsalis
Timo is a Lecturer in Architectural Design and Technology and the Director of the Interior Architecture and Venue Design programme of studies.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Studio facilities - glue guns, hotwire cutters, laser cutters in workshops, 3D printers in the workshops
Safety shoes
Starter pack including A3 wallet, sketchbook, measuring tape, scale ruler, eraser, 3 x technical pencils
Free membership of accredited bodies - license paid by college
Year 1 Compulsory Field trip within England, 4 day residential: coach, bed and breakfast
Day trips to free entry venues or construction sites
AutoCAD student version downloadable in personal computer
Adobe suite, Endscape and Sketch-up Pro available on university computers in the MS and BM campuses
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Year 1 Field trip main meals approx. £20 per day
Materials for model making (card, vinyl, acrylic), presentation materials (marker pens, inks, etc.), production of prototype and final models, 3D printing material and laser cutting materials. Approx. costs - Year 1: £100, Year 2: £200, Year 3: £300 (Costs approximated by students)
Additional materials (printing, stationery, portfolio sleeves, folders, etc.) approx. costs - Year 1: £50, Year 2: £50, Year 3: £300
Optional costs not included in your fees
Course books - approx. £30 per book depending on source
Year 2 - Optional 5 day trip abroad with a student contribution of approx. £250 which covers flights and hotel. University contribution: coach travel, entry to museums and iconic buildings, metro card, guided tour and booklet
Any travel for paid placements
High fidelity graphics card
Computer and programmes if not using university computers
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
As a BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Venue Design graduate, you are ideally prepared for the wide variety of employment opportunities available to you, covering everything from generic architecture, or interior design, to venue project management and technical consultancy, depending upon where you wish to focus your career.
Some of the more popular choices are:
Hospitality:
hotels, bars and restaurants
Leisure:
cinemas, theatre, museums, spas and health centres, sports arenas and tourist attractions
Retail:
shops, corporate branding and stores
Corporate:
offices and production facilities
In all of these areas, you could be involved in new build, refurbishment, change of use or conversions.
Graduates in the past have also secured employment in the areas of:
Theatre and Stage Design
Computer Game Environment Design
Design of Executive Yacht Interiors
Your degree and professional qualification will also give you the opportunity to work overseas. Some past students have been employed in Santa Monica, USA and Japan, as well as many other countries.
Graduation from the course also gives you a sound basis for the opportunity of progression onto other professional qualifications, with some graduates having progressed on to RIBA courses and eventually qualifying as Chartered Architects, either whilst working (part-time) or (full-time) at other Educational Institutions.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Chat to our students
−