Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/international-hospitality-and-tourism-management-courses/international-hospitality-and-tourism-management-msc/

International Hospitality and Tourism Management MSc - International Hospitality and Tourism Management - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
International Hospitality and Tourism Management
International Hospitality and Tourism Management MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
International Hospitality and Tourism Management
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year (2 years with placement year),  Part-time: Up to 6 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, January
4
th
in the UK for Hospitality and Leisure Management
QS World University Ranking 2024
33
rd
in the world for Hospitality and Leisure Management
QS World University Rankings 2024
The MSc International Hospitality and Tourism Management provides you with knowledge of how to manage organisations in international sectors, underpinned by a balanced understanding of the hospitality and tourism industries. You will graduate with the knowledge, understanding and experience to take up managerial roles within the hospitality or tourism sectors.
You’ll have the chance to enhance these skills before you graduate with an optional work placement in the UK or abroad, allowing you to put theory into practice in an industry setting.
Our programme is built around three key themes that reflect the principles of the UN World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) and are informed by the
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
. These themes cover areas such as:
Responsible Tourism
Protecting the natural environment
Building sustainable communities through regenerative tourism
Promoting accessible tourism solutions
Improving wellbeing through nature connectedness
Assisting sustainable transport systems and capitalising on sustainable digital technologies
Sustainable Hospitality Solutions
Promoting ethically sourced ingredients
Developing ethical supply chains
Changing behaviour around consumption
Sourcing, and provenance
Encouraging corporate and social responsibility in Hospitality
Finding solutions to waste management
Ethical packaging, and disruptive technologies
Building Better Business
Focusing on increasing productivity through sustainable practices
Using the principles of the circular economy to become more sustainable
Improving workplace wellbeing and the development and application of new and emerging technologies for tourism and hospitality
At the forefront of industry
The hospitality and tourism industries are amongst the fastest-growing employment areas worldwide. Due to this growth, employers require individuals with the necessary skills and education to lead the next generation of hospitality and tourism businesses.
These industries are facing new global challenges, compelling companies to adapt. Tomorrow’s hospitality and tourism leaders will not only need to learn to act according to the norms of their profession – but also develop the competencies to think critically, measure satisfaction and performance, and apply a set of tools to achieve standards. You’ll gain the skills needed to support tourism and hospitality businesses' transition to a global sustainable economy. You will explore how to do this through service innovation, processes of continuous improvement of service quality which are increasingly directed by technological innovation, and the adoption of sustainable and responsible business practices.
A degree for a sustainable future
Sustainability is at the heart of our degree, you’ll develop a deeper understanding of the sustainable development goals, and the role tourism and hospitality play in influencing visitors and guests behaviours. You’ll explore how this can be utilised for social, cultural, and economic benefits for local communities, and how we can reduce negative environmental impacts at local, national, and international levels.
You’ll explore how sustainable digital technologies are used to build resilient infrastructures and global supply chains, foster innovation, and support the developments of destinations both locally and internationally.
Ways to study the degree
You can choose to apply to study the degree on our full time route over one year, or choose to study the degree with a six month integrated industry placement to develop your employability skills and gain valuable industry connections and experience.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You’ll study a range of exciting modules covering key topics such as:
Responsible and Regenerative Tourism Destinations
Sustainable Hospitality and Food Solutions
The Case for Sustainable and Ethical Business Management
Independent Study: Research Methods
Hospitality and Tourism Experience Design and Innovation
Sustainable and Ethical Business Operations and Marketing
Independent Study: Dissertation
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You’ll learn in a collaborative environment where you can create and test new ideas in partnership with our academic team and industry. Our curriculum is centred around authentic assessments and investigations, co-designed in collaboration with industry, to provide you with real-world experiences and industry insights to create well rounded graduates ready to launch their career.
Our diverse and enriching learning environment ensures students can share learning experiences, assessments, projects, case studies and research with colleagues studying within Derby Business School and across collaborative partner institutions.
This degree has an interdisciplinary research focus, drawing on the expertise, knowledge, skills, and research from the College of Business, Law, and Social Sciences to offer a well-rounded understanding of responsible tourism and hospitality.
Our Business, Economic and Social Policy research
Our research in this area aims to make a real difference to business, economy and society regionally, nationally and internationally. We will advance and share knowledge in all its forms and impact on public policy.
Find out more
Find out more
Entry requirements
A UK 2.2 (or above) bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification from a recognised British or overseas institution listed on ENIC-TI. All subjects are considered, but possession of degrees or relevant experience in related subjects will be advantageous
Applicants with other qualifications e.g. not BA (Hons) and/or relevant work experience will be accepted on a case-by-case basis. An interview will be part of the process to assess your capacity for critical awareness, self-reflection, communication skills and the motivation required to successfully complete the programme. This interview will be with the academic team
International applicants will need to be able to show they have a good standard of English typically IELTS minimum overall: 6.5 or equivalent
If you are taking the placement route for this course you will also need to consider the following items:
Students will be required to find their own placements and will need to arrange and attend an interview in the second semester with a prospective industry organisation
To comply with UKVI requirements, international students wishing to undertake their optional placement in the UK will have to state their intentions of which route they want to study at the point of application so that they can work with the registry and admission teams to obtain the correct visa documentation and CAS in advance of entry
International students will need to comply with the CAS requirements and return to campus to complete their studies to qualify for future visa routes into the UK
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Carbon Literacy Certification with the Carbon Literacy Project is included as part of your fee.
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
The applied nature of this degree means that you’ll be able to demonstrate a range of valuable transferrable skills such as research and analysis, time management and ethical awareness in professional settings, meaning you will be well placed for a range of graduate roles in fields such as:
Tourism organisations
Airlines
4-star and 5-star hotels
NGOs, tour operators
Travel agencies
Government organisations
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.