Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/computing-courses/internet-of-things-bsc-hons-foundation/

Internet of Things with Foundation Year BSc (Hons) - Computing - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Computing
Internet of Things with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Internet of Things with Foundation Year
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
I0TF
Start date
September
Location
Enterprise Centre
The best bits
Learn how to use and develop Internet of Things (IoT) and Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) devices and applications, and unlock their power for enhancing how businesses operate and how society thrives
Develop skills and knowledge in computing, data science and electronics and graduate ready for roles that are in demand around the world
Take advantage of our connections with employers on work placements and projects
Learn in a modern, flexible and supportive environment, supported by specialist facilities and be taught by expert staff
Designed with industry in mind
This programme is part of the
East Midlands Institute of Technology
, for which the University of Derby is the lead institution. The Institute focuses on preparing the current and future generations of innovators to ensure they are skilled in digital, manufacturing and engineering subjects.
This course is designed in close collaboration with industrial practitioners, technologists, specialists and professional bodies to offer rigorous professional and practical training backed with sound academic theory.
You’ll learn through industry briefs and case studies and apply what you have learnt to real world scenarios, as well as working on projects supplied by industry, examples include studying the practicality and usability of real IoT systems, real world ethical issues, and development and deployment of systems to improve manufacturing or transport processes. You’ll also hear from industry experts in lectures and practical’s.
The module content is inspired by our local communities and people, as well as being relevant to the City we belong to. We collaborate with local and international industries on a wide range of challenging projects including:
Rolls Royce PLC
Toyota Manufacturing GB
CERN
Bloc Digital
Alstom
Bentley Motors
Gardner Aerospace
JCB
AddQual
GXO
We have seen
ordinary things become connected to the internet and offer new opportunities for their users: the
y
range from
smart fridges
, fall sensors for
elderly
people, and s
elf-driving veh
icles to
factories
and beyond
.
The Internet of Things (IoT)
provides the platform
to
connect
real
-
world devices to c
omputer networks
and has
a huge impact
on industry and individuals
.
The underlying technology is
based on
sensors, actuators, software
,
connectivity
and data science and
impacts
all aspects of socie
ty
.
Future needs
Modern industries are starting to rely on this type of technology so data can be gathered from sensors and devices. It has become a key factor in the field of logistics and manufacturing with supply chain controls as well as in personalised medicine and transport.
Indications from industry show a strong need for a workforce that has the skills and knowledge to interpret data and act accordingly to maximise opportunities. During this course, you will be supported on your journey of becoming a professional practitioner who will shape awareness, knowledge and understanding of the economic, social and environmental context of applications of the Internet of Things. You’ll gain an understanding of the technical aspects underpinning the IoT which includes computing and software development skills, electronics, data analysis and artificial intelligence.
Throughout the course, you will develop the ability to confidently communicate in a range of situations on relevant subject and societal matters, conduct research, solve problems in a logical and analytical manner and communicate findings. You’ll also gain an understanding of research methods involving Artificial Intelligence (AI), including both employing AI tools to aid research and conducting research to identify key issues and their respective IoT solutions.
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You’ll be taught in lectures, which are intentionally interactive and incorporate question-and-answer sessions. Practical sessions will allow you to develop skills in equipment use, the creation of small systems and the evaluation of these. Seminars and tutorials provide opportunities to expand your knowledge on topics.
You will also take part in teamwork to develop interpersonal and communication skills.
Technology-enhanced learning plays an important role and interaction is supported by the use of appropriate virtual learning environments.
How you are assessed
A variety of assessment methods are used. Some modules are assessed through coursework only, others by a combination of coursework, portfolios, assignments, case studies, oral and graphic presentations, collaborative and interdisciplinary teamwork projects, and computer testing providing a flexible and effective means of assessments.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass in Science, Technology, Engineering or Maths
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 24, Pass: 21 in a Technical subject area
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Graduates will be able to enter destinations in local governments, engineering companies and health organisations as IoT developers, working on projects such as smart devices and smart infrastructure but also digital twin implementations. They will also be suitable to find employment as data scientists or data engineers.
For those interested in further study, graduates could go on to study a postgraduate course like our
MSc Cyber Security
or another course through our
EMIoT partners
.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Other courses you might like
Artificial Intelligence and Data Science with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Computer Science with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Internet of Things BSc (Hons)