Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/education-courses/international-qualified-teacher-status-iqts-online/

International Qualified Teacher Status (iQTS) - Education - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Education
International Qualified Teacher Status (iQTS)
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
International Qualified Teacher Status (iQTS)
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 1 year
UK fee
£8,000
(2025/26)
‡
International fee
£8,000
(2025/26)
‡
Start date
September
Location
Online
In 2022, the Department for Education (DfE) appointed University of Derby as one of only six accredited providers for the new International Qualified Teacher Status (iQTS) Initial Teacher Training (ITT) programme / qualification.
iQTS is a UK government-backed international teaching qualification, recognised by the DfE, as equivalent to English Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), meaning that anyone who is awarded the iQTS qualification by an accredited ITT provider, will automatically be awarded QTS through the DfE.
This iQTS course is for trainee teachers of primary education ages 3-11 years.
The highlights
Course seeks to develop outstanding teachers within primary education, who are ‘thinking professionals’ who can account for the choices they make in their classrooms
Study route for primary age group (3-11 years)
Flexible teaching qualification that addresses complex global education issues
Creates teachers who are critical thinkers, enabled to grow into leaders of learning, able to shape the educational landscape of their classrooms in an international context
Inclusive practice and raising aspirations for all learners are key drivers behind this course
Develop your practice in the classroom with the support of dedicated friendly tutors who are renowned internationally for high quality teaching and research
Benefitting from our expertise in online education, this course is delivered through online learning, combined with academic support to help you become a qualified and confident classroom teacher of children aged 3 to 11 years.
You will undertake
assessed placements
in your local schools and will be supported for the duration of the course by a trained mentor from your school setting.
In line with the iQTS Teachers’ Standards and International Core Content Framework, the iQTS will focus on the fundamental skills needed to be an effective teacher in any international setting, supported by a strong understanding of the subject pedagogy and professional skills required to be an outstanding teacher.
As a long-standing provider of Initial Teacher Training and Education (ITT/E), awarding this qualification affirms our place as both a national and now international provider of high-quality ITT/E, one of only a small number of providers in the UK offering this award.
Who is the iQTS for?
The iQTS is aimed at those living outside of the UK who have secured a placement school outside the UK able to support them, including:
UK citizens currently working abroad who wish to start teacher training or develop their teaching career. You must be based overseas for the duration of the course
Non-UK citizens who wish to begin teacher training or build on existing teaching experience
UK and non-UK teachers without QTS, working overseas, who wish to improve their employability in England and internationally with a UK government-backed and approved professional qualification
Those who wish to gain a formal teaching qualification
Holders of iPGCE qualification who wish to gain a formal teaching qualification. Graduates of the
University of Derby’s online iPGCE
will be eligible for a
discount on the iQTS course fee
If you prefer to undertake a qualification without Qualified Teacher Status, then our
online iPGCE course
may be more suited to you.
Specialism for Primary Education
This course allows you to tailor your studies to match your own interests and career plans. Depending on your preference and any prior experience, you can choose to specialise, via your placements, in teaching 3- to 7-year-olds or 5- to 11-year-olds.
Whichever route you choose, your award will be the same; however, your placements, undertaken in host schools sourced by yourself, will be appropriate to your chosen route to help you advance your teaching and learning skills in specific areas.
What you will study
The iQTS programme consists of three professional practice zero credit modules at level 6.
We will advise you of your study plan - the running order and availability of the modules - when you are invited to enrol.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
Teaching and Learning
This course is delivered through online learning combined with in school learning and practice placements. Your online learning will involve:
live sessions with tutors or guest speakers (all sessions recorded to view afterwards)
discussion around topics in the virtual cafes and digital forums
Exploring case studies
Independent study
Digital workshops and seminars
Practice placements
School Placements
In line with the International Teachers' Standards (2022), you will develop your knowledge and understanding of the iQTS curriculum in different settings, regularly formatively assessing your ability to remember and apply it in theoretical and practical environments. You will be supported to teach all subjects in the Primary curriculum and assessed in all curriculum subjects. You will be required to gain a minimum of 140 days of school experience during the iQTS course, including 20 days of Intensive Training and Practice (ITaP) based in your placement school.
As well as University based teaching, your knowledge of the curriculum will be developed and assessed in placement experiences.
Applicants are required to source their own placement prior to enrolment on the course. If you are currently employed by a school and will undertake your placements there, they will need to confirm that they can support you during the course, including allowing you time to undertake taught sessions and to engage with the reflective process necessary for success on the course.
You will follow one of two age group routes:
3-7 years, or
5-11 years
The age group route you choose will determine the assessed placements you undertake. Irrespective of the route undertaken, the qualification at the end will be the same.
Of the three assessed placements, at least one must be taken in consecutive age groups and not in the same age group. For instance, 3-5 years and 5-7 years, or 5-7 years and 7-11 years.
Note:
Placements should be sourced by yourself. You must be able to practice for a minimum of 140 days and supply a mentor able to support you for a minimum of 1.5 hrs per week and commit to 20 hours of synchronous and asynchronous mentor training throughout the year, which can be amended based on prior experience.
There is flexibility around the number of placement settings. Trainees may undertake their placements within one setting where sourcing a second placement is not possible. Those in employment can undertake the iQTS in their school. Your placements should enable you to undertake equivalent to 10 days teaching in an alternative setting e.g. a nursery or high school. Because of the demands of the programme, if you are in employment, you should only be teaching a maximum of 80% of a normal timetable (equivalent of a minimum of 2 hours to study during school time each week).
Placement Mentor
During your placements, you'll be supported by your university tutors, as well as a school-based Mentor. Your school will need to confirm that they have identified a mentor who is suitably qualified to support you, can be released for specific mentor training and development, and able to devote the time to effectively support you in the course. You will need to evidence this at application.
As a minimum, your mentor should be qualified to teach in the school you are placed. They must be able to:
Support you for a minimum of 1.5 hours / week
observe your practice for an hour per week,
meet with you weekly to set and review targets and discuss your progress
complete mentor training as appropriate up to 20 hours over the year
University Tutor
Your University Tutor will undertake virtual observations, all of which will be recorded, to support professional dialogue and judgements.  Tutors will provide you with support during your placements around key aspects of your role, including assessment, moderation, and progress.
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Study Skills
Many of our students have not studied for a long time, so we put in place support to enable them to study at postgraduate level. If this applies to you, there are several advanced study skill resources available, covering areas such as research skills, critical evaluation in academic context, literature search, referencing, plagiarism and more.
Course Duration
This iQTS course is completed part-time over one year.
The course is 36 weeks in duration, delivered over three terms.
Your placements will run from September to December, January to March and April to June, with adjustments made to reflect local holidays and school terms.
Typically, you will have 5 hours per week directed by the university, plus a further 15 hours per week implementing your learning in placement.
Assessment method
This course is assessed through placement-based assessments, as described above.
Modules incorporate formative and summative assessments; with formative tasks such as presentations, leading seminars and discussions, through to the summative written and practical activities. Ongoing feedback (written/ verbal) will be provided by your tutors, your mentor and peers during taught sessions and placement experiences, helping you to understand your strengths and areas for development towards International Qualified Teacher Status.
Who will teach you
Dr Adam Simcock
Programme Leader
Dr Adam Simcock
Adam Simcock is a Senior Lecturer in Education and Programme Lead for the iQTS programmes. His fields of research and teaching interest are around Education for Sustainability, Global Citizenship, and International and Comparative Educ...
View full staff profile
→
Explore all teaching staff on this course
Entry requirements
Applicants for the course will require the following:
Undergraduate degree (at least a 2:2) with Honours or equivalent
Grade 4 in GCSE English Language or equivalent
Grade 4 in GCSE Mathematics or equivalent
Grade 4 in GCSE Science or equivalent
When completing your application, you must provide evidence of your qualifications as well as other requested
documentation
. Those without any one of the above requirements must complete an
equivalency test
demonstrating attainment as grade 4 equivalency as a condition of enrolment onto the programme.
English language qualifications
If English is not your first language, or you have not successfully completed your highest level of qualification in English, you will need an English language qualification. For this course you will need a minimum IELTS (International English Language Testing System) score of 6.5 or equivalent and no lower than 6.5 in any area.
If you studied your undergraduate degree in English, please provide evidence of this to demonstrate your proficiency in English.
Find out more about our English language requirements
For non-UK qualification equivalency please apply for a Statement of Comparability from
UK ENIC
to provide on application.
Additional Required Information
Prohibition Checks
A
Prohibition List check
will automatically be carried out after we have received a Firm acceptance of an offer.
Evidence of good health
If your application successfully progresses to offer stage, an offer will be made subject to you meeting the course’s health requirements. You will be required to complete a Health Questionnaire via an external agency, Optima Health, to demonstrate good health for joining the course.
Interview
Shortlisted applications will be invited for an interview with members of the Programme Team which will be held via Microsoft Teams.
Your interview experience is an exciting opportunity for you to demonstrate your passion for the course you are applying for.
What to bring to the interview
Photographic proof of your identity
, e.g. passport, driving licence etc. Please note that if you do not bring this you will not be interviewed.
If offered a place and you accept, you will be asked to provide:
Originals of Degree certificates at 2:2 and above and GCSEs or equivalents to show that you have achieved a grade 4 or above in English Language, Mathematics and Science. These will need to be seen by our admissions team and in person with your placement school prior to commencing the program
.
Any special requirements?
Please let us know if you require any reasonable adjustments, particularly if you have any disability or special needs, to help us to assist you in the interview process, e.g. any access or communication issues.
Is the interview compulsory?
Yes. You will need to attend the interview before we can make you an offer on the programme.
What happens if I am running late on the day?
We know that delays are sometimes unavoidable so, if you are running late on the day, please contact us as soon as you can and let us know your estimated arrival time. If necessary, we can tell you about any alternate arrangements for your interview. In some instances, if you expect to be significantly late, we may suggest you book for a different date.
And finally…
Should you have any questions, or if you require any reasonable adjustments to attend the interview, please do not hesitate to contact us by telephone:
+44 (0)1332 591167
or email:
myinterview@derby.ac.uk
Fees and funding
‡
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
UK/EU fee:
£8,000
International fee:
£8,000
About your fees
This figure would be the total cost of this course based on the fee in the current academic year. However, please note that fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase if your course lasts longer than one year.
If you are required to undertake any associate study or additional study as a condition of your offer for the programme, please be aware that the cost for this may be in addition to the programme cost stated above.
Visit our
Fees and Finance web pages
for further details on course fees and paying for your course.
Please note that the instalment calendar for this programme is as follows:
Initial payment up front (20%)
2nd payment (20%)
3rd payment (20%)
4th payment (20%)
5th payment (20%)
September intake
Enrolment
1 December
1 January
1 February
1 March
Amount due
£1,600
£1,600
£1,600
£1,600
£1,600
Fee Discount for iPGCE Graduates
Graduates of the
University of Derby online iPGCE
are eligible for a £990 discount on the iQTS course fees (Academic year 2025/2026).
Technical Equipment Costs
This course requires the use of three cameras / video capture devices that are capable of recording at least an hour of video and can be connected to one single computer. The recorded files need to be uploaded in one of the following formats:
MP4 / M4V MPEG 4 format
MTS MPEG Transport Stream
WMV Windows Media video
MOV QuickTime Movie
AVI Digital video
FLV Adobe Flash Video
3GP Mobile video format
MKV Matroska multimedia container format
Any costs incurred for this equipment are not covered within your course fees.
How to apply
Please note that this course has earlier application deadlines.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Application deadline
The application deadline for the September 2025 intake of the iQTS course is
30 June 2025.
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Documents required to support your application
In addition to meeting the above course entry criteria, applicants will also need to provide the following documentation together with your application to demonstrate your suitability to join the iQTS course:
Copy of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications** If successful you will be required to provide original documents for verification
Passport
Current CV detailing your full employment history and teaching experience
Letters from national authority about any 'imposed restrictions or conditions':
These letters must be from national authorities where applicants have conducted a teaching role, confirming there are no imposed restrictions or conditions of their teaching
Two written references that must be addressed to 'The Admissions Tutor: iQTS':
Both on headed paper from either a manager, supervisor, tutor or teacher
Your references must state clearly your suitability to teach
Evidence of placements:
A completed pre-interview
iQTS placement approval form
: This details your placement’s suitability to host you for the minimum of 140 days and to provide a mentor with suitable time and expertise to coach your practice over the year.
The mentor must be proficient in English to undertake the assessments and converse with university staff, they should be qualified to teach in the setting in which you are placed, committed to the mentor development outlined above and able to support your development.
The placement approval form will be confirmed later by the school’s agreement to the iQTS Partnership Agreement
Applicants who have ever lived, studied, or worked, in the UK will need to supply an
International Child Protection Certificate (ICPC)
*
A Certificate of Good Conduct from any country (other than the UK) that you have taught in over the last 5 years*
* Your ICPC and any Certificates of Good Conduct must be valid at the start date of the IQTS programme. ICPC’s can be obtained following a successful interview but will be a condition of enrolment onto the programme.
**Documents not in English or Welsh
must
be accompanied by a
certified translation
by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Gov website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Careers
The iQTS qualification is a highly respected route into primary teaching, across the world. You will automatically be recommended for English QTS from the UK Department for Education upon successful completion of this course.
As an iQTS graduate and ultimately becoming a teacher with internationally recognised qualified teacher status, you can pursue a career in teaching anywhere in the world, including in England. You may go into roles such as subject coordinator into a pastoral role. Ultimately, this course will increase your knowledge and confidence to go into leadership roles in schools.
You may choose to support the next generation of trainee teachers by stepping into a mentoring role yourself.
Upon completing this course, you may wish to go on to complete a full Masters award such as our
online MA Education
which offers specialist pathways in Leadership and Management or TESOL. It would then be possible for you to progress onto Doctoral level study such as our
Doctor of Education EdD (online)
.
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
International Postgraduate Certificate of Education (iPGCE)
Education MA
PGCE Primary with Qualified Teacher Status