Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/joint-honours-courses/international-relations-law-ba-hons/

International Relations and Law BA (Hons) - Joint Honours - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Joint Honours
International Relations and Law BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
International Relations and Law
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
L2M1
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road and One Friar Gate Square, Derby Campus
Do you want to understand and influence what is happening in the world? From the climate crisis, habitat loss, the COVID-19 pandemic, and threats to free speech - the world has never been in such a state of change. This rapid change also brings about new opportunity areas. New and sustainable technologies promise a future with clean energy and zero-emissions vehicles, while social media enables people to work together to challenge prevailing orthodoxies, prejudices and governments. There’s also youth activism and widespread movements for racial and societal justice.
If you want to play a role in shaping some of these crucial global issues this course is for you. You’ll
explore a range of modules spanning politics and international affairs to cultural studies, economics, data science, sociology, geography, history, law, international development, to broaden your horizons and giving you a host of skills to boost your employability.
Top
15
for assessment and feedback - Law subject area
National Student Survey 2024
Top
15
for teaching quality - Law subject area
Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Top
25
for learning opportunities - Law subject area
National Student Survey 2024
Academic expertise
Our Law teaching team includes barristers, solicitors, criminal psychologists, sociologists and experienced police officers. Several are still actively engaged with practice, which helps you keep up to date with contemporary issues in justice. Our teaching is also enriched by research covering some of the most pressing issues confronting society today, from slavery to digital privacy.
Our International Relations team draws on expertise from a wide variety of areas and covers a range of different geographical areas and thematic approaches, including the history and politics of modern China and India, Eastern European economies, the green transition, and European integration.
Student Legal Advice Centre and Pro Bono work
Students studying Law at Derby may have access to our Student Legal Advice Centre - our dedicated space for real-world learning. Volunteering in the Centre provides you the opportunity to develop transferable skills that will assist you in gaining the skills required once you graduate.
The Centre offers assistance in the following areas:
Family law
Criminal injuries compensation authority claims
Immigration family reunion (in partnership with British Red Cross and Paragon Law)
The Centre also offers support to Litigants in Person in Family Law matters at the Family Court at Derby. In Autumn 2022, a Business Clinic and Legal Triage Clinic exclusively for University of Derby students was launched.
The Centre also has a Policy Clinic and Justice Project. The Justice Project promotes the teaching of law to all members of the community, including school children, by informing them of their legal rights and responsibilities.
The Centre was shortlisted for Best Contribution by a Law School at the LawWorks and Attorney General Student Pro Bono Awards 2022, and was highly commended at the LawWorks Pro Bono Awards 2021 for Best contribution in relation to the Centre’s Immigration Family Reunion Clinic.
Choose your pathway
Studying an International Relations and Law Joint Honours degree allows you to choose whether you major in one subject or study them both equally.
You begin this degree by studying both subjects equally in your first year. By the end of your first year, you will then decide whether you would like to major or minor in a chosen subject or continue to study them both equally.
BA (Hons) International Relations and Law
In this pathway, you study
International Relations
and Law equally.
BA (Hons) International Relations with Law
In this pathway,
International Relations
is the major subject and Law is the minor subjec
t
.
BA (Hons) Law with International Relations
In this pathway, Law is the major subject and
International Relations
is the minor subject.
What is a Joint Honours degree?
A Joint Honours degree offers students the opportunity to study two subjects.
A Joint Honours degree is a great option if:
You want to study two subjects you’re passionate about
You’ve got a specific career in mind and want to create a tailored degree to prepare you for the future
You want to study a new subject alongside one you’re already familiar with
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You'll be taught through a variety of methods, such as:
lectures
seminars
workshops and tutorials
student presentations
debates
one-to-one sessions with a tutor
work projects
self-directed study
video discussions with overseas partner institutions
case preparation
mooting - where you present a legal issue against opposing counsel in a mock court case
interviewing
negotiation
Engaging in real or simulated legal practice, you will build a range of the key skills required to succeed in the legal sector at every stage of the course.
You will also develop skills in legal scholarship, with the chance to undertake problem-based research and original academic enquiry. If our teaching team consider the work you produce to be of sufficient quality, it could be published in the Derby Law School Journal.
Through our peer assisted mentoring scheme, students from later years of the course also give helpful guidance and support to first year students.
Showcasing your skills
Mooting forms part of certain modules and you can develop your expertise further through regional and national competitions. We have an excellent record of success in these challenges.
We also help run a schools’ debating competition in partnership with Derby & District Law Society and Enterprise for Education where you can mentor local secondary school pupils.
How you are assessed
For Law modules, assessments include:
group work
oral presentations
written coursework
examinations
seminar debates
group presentations
conference papers
For International Relations modules, you will be assessed through a range of coursework, including essays, research reports, presentations, and participation in debates. Some modules will also assess your ability to develop teamwork and research skills in an applied, real-world context, and your ability to reflect on how these prepare you for your chosen career.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Alen Toplisek
Programme Leader
Dr Alen Toplisek
Alen is a Senior Lecturer in Global Affairs and Politics and programme leader for BA in Global Affairs and Politics. His research focuses on comparative politics and political economy in Central and Eastern Europe, questions of depende...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Database usage within modules with access to Finance Lab for specified assessments, statistical analysis software
Some taster events - transport costs covered
Opportunities to enter IBM University Business Challenge or equivalent
Opportunity of part funded trips, optional with limited places available
Optional costs not included in your fees
Printing
Textbooks
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
When you have completed this degree, you will be well-informed about the major global issues of our time as well as legal theory and practice, and have a range of skills that employers really value, particularly:
negotiation and conflict resolution
being able to analyse evidence objectively, including using basic data science techniques
communication
problem-solving
cultural awareness
You can put these skills to good use in a range of high-level careers, such as in politics, journalism, campaigning, think-tanks, NGOs (Non-Governmental Organisations), charities, the civil or diplomatic services, and inter-governmental institutions.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
You will typically study your two subjects equally at stage one, before choosing whether you want to major in one subject at stages two and three.
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
This is a new course so the data displayed via Discover Uni is for students studying in another subject area.
Full-time
Other courses you might like
LLB (Hons)
Global Affairs and Politics BA (Hons)
History BA (Hons)