Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/art-design-courses/interior-design-ba-hons-foundation/

Interior Design with Foundation Year BA (Hons) - Art and Design - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Art and Design
Interior Design with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Interior Design with Foundation Year
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
W25F
Start date
September
Location
Britannia Mill, Derby Campus
The course is for anyone who is inspired and moved by interiors and inquisitive enough to find out how to realise these technically. Studying interior design at Derby will help you develop your design skills to create functional and unique spaces with strong spatial identities. You’ll learn how to best use specific spatial qualities, i.e. forms, texture and materials, lighting, colour, architectural components, objects and placement of these, enabling you to make your ideas become a reality. You’ll be inspired to work in a way that is environmentally responsible, memorable and experiential.
Preparing you for a career in interior design
The roles and responsibilities of an Interior Designer will see you become involved from the initial brief to the final build of a project which could be an existing building, an urban interior or a self-standing entity such as an exhibition or set-stage. The course is dynamic and co-creative, in that it welcomes students’ own voices/cultures and values risk-taking and experimentation. It further aims to equip students with all the relevant skills and knowledge ready for the ‘real’ world upon graduation.
You will gain exposure to the wide field that is interior design, exploring various spatial typologies such as residential interiors, commercial interiors i.e. retail, corporate, set-stage and exhibition design and hospitality, as well as exploring adaptive reuse/regenerative design to name but a few, with a focus on employment opportunities open to an interior design graduate. You will also learn how to collaborate nationally/internationally, and design bespoke artefacts and furniture to compliment your interiors and generate the appropriate visual documentation required for each stage of the design. You will also get to understand how people relate to space and objects, by being exposed to ergonomics, and learn to design spaces that are functional and in accordance to building regulations and health and safety legislation.
92
%
of students agreed that teaching staff make the subject engaging
BA (Hons) Interior Design - National Student Survey 2024
Professional accreditations and affiliations
The BA (Hons) Interior Design programme is accredited by the
SBID (Society of British and International Design)
. It is also affiliated with
IE (Interior Educators)
and members of the teaching team are affiliated with the
BIID (British Institute of Interior Design)
.
The SBID is an internationally recognised accreditation in Interior Design. Our Interior Design students can obtain free student memberships to the SBID for unique promotional opportunities through their 'Get Me 2 The Top' initiative and mentorship programmes.
IE is an organisation that works to better interior design education through knowledge exchange and practice, with an annual exhibition in London where top graduates will be invited to showcase their work.
The BIID offers a free student membership, networking opportunities and CPD (continuous professional development) as well as the chance to take part in the Student Design Challenge in the final year.
I wanted to better understand interior and exterior spaces and be able to communicate my design projects. I've learnt the vital skills to represent interior spaces through our 2D and 3D sketches and projects.
Iga Mackowiak
Interior Design student
Networking and collaboration opportunities
This course sets itself apart from other interior design courses by offering unique collaborating opportunities with other disciplines in national/international partners. Collaboration with design disciplines may include working with other programmes in the university to design and manufacture interior artefacts or to create bespoke interior products. International collaboration will be through international vertical studio projects (joint projects between Level 4 to Level 6 cohorts). This course is affiliated with Interior Educators and members of the teaching team are affiliated with the BIID (British Institute of Interior Design) to ensure we stay up to date on current events taking place in the country.
The course gives you the freedom to be creative and pull in inspirations - whether it be from the experience or emotion you want to evoke or the colour or style you pictured.
Prince Rosales
Interior Design student
Real world learning
In addition to your lectures and seminars, you will take part in live projects which build upon your ‘real’ world learning and will contribute to your credibility as an interior designer. Live projects to date include: Repurposing of an old barn to a contemporary wedding venue for Victoria Brown; design of Bohn’s restaurant interior now located in Nottingham; design of 1st Crack coffee shop and the design of
S.H.E.D. a mobile transforming shed
that is travelling the country for the next two years. You will also be able to obtain Building Information Modelling (BIM) training by your second year and construct an online portfolio in readiness for DPP and/or final year and graduation.
Where Heritage Fuels Creativity
A blend of history and innovation, Britannia Mill is home to our arts, textiles, and creative courses, sparking new ideas in a historic setting.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You’ll learn in well-resourced, professional design studios at Britannia Mill.
Resources include ISKN tables,
Macbook
Pros, large format scanners, drawing boards, as well as the arts and design library.
You
will
also
be able to make full use of the traditional
3D workshop facilities
(wood and metal) at
Markeaton Street
and the latest 3D computer software. You’ll have access to specialist textiles equipment and machinery in the
Digital Design Hub
such as the laser cutter and digital fabric print facilities in the textiles department.
We also showcase at Free Range in London along with 50 other Interior Design institutions giving you the opportunity to display your work at one of the largest graduate shows in Europe.  This valuable experience will help you to prepare for a career in interior design.
How you will be assessed
Assessment is 100% coursework based including practical production and oral presentation work, along with written assignments. In your final year, you’ll have the opportunity to write a dissertation on a subject of your choice and work on self-negotiated and independent creative projects.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Melissa Di Giovanni
Programme Leader
Melissa Di Giovanni
Melissa is a postgraduate research student whose current research investigates how cognitive and psychological factors influence drawing ability and affect the design experience for students in design education.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
Offers will be made initially based on your application, including predicted grades and/or grades you have already achieved. You may be given the opportunity, within your offer letter, to submit a portfolio. If you submit a strong portfolio we will make you an unconditional offer, to reflect the quality of your work and your potential.
Additional entry requirements
Portfolio: Recommended -
view portfolio details
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Use of workshop resources, 3D imaging software and site visits. Materials kit, paper, card, basic modelling materials are provided
The programme uses Adobe Creative Suite which is installed on all Macs in MS102 and MS012 at Markeaton Street and students are provided with an individual Adobe Creative Cloud subscription for home use
To support their professional and skills development, students are provided with a subscription to LinkedIn Learning which offers over 13,000 courses and tutorials, including professional accreditations, in a wide range of creative, business & technology disciplines
Additional access to wider University Arts' facilities including equipment loan store and other facilities, such as digital print workshops traditional 3d making workshop, laser cutter, CNC and basic RP facilities
Compulsory study visits to local and Regional Construction/conversion opportunity buildings
Participation in design competitions and live projects
Participation in University Degree Show and the London Graduate Show
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Interior design materials for making (card, vinyl, acrylic), presentation materials (marker pens, inks, etc.), show printing of student work, production of prototype and final models, production of RP models. Approx. costs - Year 1 = £150, Year 2 = £200, Year 3 = £300 (Costs determined by student)
Additional materials (printing, stationery, portfolio sleeves, folders, USBs/hard drives etc.) approx. costs - Year 1 = £150, Year 2 = £200, Year 3 = £300
Printing of design work Year 1 = £100, Year 2 = £200, Year 3 = £300
Drawing equipment general 'toolbox' (marker pens, pencils, scalpels, layout pads etc.) £50-£75 each year. A toolkit list will be sent out to you at the start of the year with all equipment requirements
Student promotion materials, approx. £75
Optional costs not included in your fees
Specialist software/hardware: We highly recommend that you do not buy a computer or laptop for this course prior to starting, but rather wait to speak with the teaching team and be guided on the most suitable device to buy for your studies
Travel for work placement opportunities (costs will vary depending on location)
International trips approximately £350 per year
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
A key aim of this programme is to prepare you as a graduate for the professional world of interior designers and we would anticipate that a number of you will seek to pursue your career through either freelance or consultancy practice drawing on the opportunities presented through the curriculum to collaborate with other design-related disciplines.
This course will provide you with an opportunity to examine different sectors within the commercial and residential interior design, enabling you to gain an understanding and appreciation of the many facets and opportunities that are open to an interior design graduate.
After graduation you’ll be prepared for a career in interior design with endless opportunities to choose from such as:
S
tyling and
window/retail
display
C
inematic interior styling along with
TV
sets
S
et
-stage
design
and exhibition design
Retail design, e.g.
fashion, gifts, jewellery stores, computer and gaming stores, etc.
Corporate design, e.g.
offices
Hospitality design
, e.g. bars, restaurants, coffee shops
Health and leisure design, e.g. hotels, spas, sport facilities, etc.
Interior consultant and sourcing
Bespoke furniture designer
Kitchen design
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Interior Design BA (Hons)
Design MA/MDes