Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/business-courses/international-business-and-finance-ba-hons-top-up/

International Business and Finance (Top-Up) BA (Hons) - Business - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Business
International Business and Finance (Top-Up) BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
International Business and Finance top-up
BA (Hons)
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Fees and funding
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time:
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2024/25)
Location
Derby Campus
This course is now closed
You may be interested in similar undergraduate courses within
Business
.
What you will study
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Fees and funding
2024/25
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
N/A
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Careers
Your aim may be to work for a financial sector organisation such as an investment bank or hedge fund; to join the financial department of a major international company or government agency; or to secure a place on a prestigious management training programme. Alternatively, you may be keen to use your business and finance decision-making skills in an SME such as a small-scale exporting company which will rely on your expertise in areas such as exchange-rate management.
Whatever your career ambitions, the BA (Hons) International Business and Finance will ensure you are highly employable in roles covering international trade and investment, risk management, business consultancy, export finance, foreign exchange services and business process outsourcing, among many other functions. Further qualifications such as the Bloomberg Market Certificate and the Futures Award will add extra substance to your CV too.
Further study
You could take your studies to the next level with one of our exciting masters programmes such as the
MSc International Business
,
MSc International Business and Finance
,
MSc International Business and Marketing
,
MSc International Business and HRM
,
MBA Global and MBA Global Finance
. You may be entitled to an
alumni discount
on your fees if you decide to extend your time with us by progressing from undergraduate to postgraduate study.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.