Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/business-courses/international-business-finance-msc/

International Business and Finance MSc - Business - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Business
International Business and Finance MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
International Business and Finance
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2-3 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, January
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
We equip you with vital perspectives on the economic and legal factors shaping international business today, especially the operation of financial markets in a global context
Exciting consultancy projects, case studies, company visits, guest lectures, networking events and professional mentoring opportunities will bring you into contact with international business leaders
Our
Financial Markets Lab
, plus access to Datastream, puts a wealth of real-world data at your fingertips and gives you an in-depth understanding of financial markets, and economies worldwide
You can enhance your leadership capabilities, gain the Bloomberg Market Certificate and add substance to your CV with our unique Futures Award
Our experienced team of lecturers will draw on their research expertise to broaden your worldview
You could also study
MSc International Business
,
MSc International Business and Marketing
or
MSc International Business and HRM
.
100
%
overall satisfaction - MSc International Business and Finance
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
If you are keen to develop a thorough understanding of business and finance operations in an international context, taking this dynamic MSc programme is a smart move. It is the ideal choice if you come from a general business background and want to gain more specialist skills and knowledge from a global perspective.
Taking a truly multidisciplinary approach, the MSc brings together disciplines such as economics, international business strategy, finance and behavioural finance. You will explore crucial questions surrounding international trade, global financial markets, regulation, pricing, how to evaluate financial performance, the psychology of financial decision making and the importance of interest rates and exchange rates for international business.
We are committed not only to your academic achievement but also to your personal and career development. Alongside the theory, you will gain statistical, modelling and research skills so that you can analyse the operation and impact of financial market strategy effectively.
Hands-on learning
The MSc International Business and Finance features plenty of scope for practical experience so that you build an impressive portfolio of transferable skills.
You could find yourself contributing to specialist projects for employers and organisations in the region: recent examples include economic impact studies of the Buxton Festival and the Derby Low Carbon Initiative and working with the D2N2 Local Enterprise Partnership on their strategic economic plan.
Company visits give you fresh insights. In the past, our students have benefited from behind-the-scenes tours of the Pride Park Stadium, Derby Arena and Crown Derby. You can take advantage of mentor opportunities with our international industry leaders, extend your contacts through networking at Institute of Directors workshops, applying for company taster days including Price Waterhouse Cooper, and attending events held by the University’s own Network of Entrepreneurs.
Expert teaching
Our lecturers are experienced in all aspects of international business and their research and experience will enrich your learning. They are supported by industry experts from our thriving network of professional and business leaders.
We collaborate with prestigious names such as Lloyds Bank Corporate; the Bank of England Midlands Office; HSBC Nottingham; Eversheds; PwC; PKF Cooper Parry; Smiths of Derby; and Captivate Brands. Many of their senior staff contribute to the MSc International Business and Finance with thought-provoking guest lectures.
You will also benefit from the support and advice of a personal tutor who is part of the programme team and will contribute to your academic and personal development and your career planning.
Professional mentoring
We give you the opportunity to receive professional mentoring from influential business figures. Our mentors range from international trade advisors and banking specialists to senior managers from our partner companies – all are happy to share their experiences and advice with you.
Facilities and resources
In our
Financial Markets Lab
you can harness the software used in financial markets worldwide to gain vital insights into the fast-paced environment of the trading floor.
The lab puts a wealth of information at your fingertips, including company and director profiles, economic data, market analysis and updates on current affairs from financial data. Harnessed by companies worldwide, this information is used extensively in our teaching and for student research and assessments.
You will receive training from Bloomberg specialists, have access to their helpdesk and can even work towards the Bloomberg Market Concepts Certificate to complement your MSc.
An extra qualification: the Futures Award
To enhance your CV further still, you can work towards a special award which recognises your leadership abilities and advanced consultancy skills. As part of the Futures Award in Leadership in International Business, you will undertake extra-curricular activities which strengthen your professional development, including business consultancy work, volunteering, fundraising activities and networking opportunities.
Our Futures Award participants have had the chance to hear from regional industry leaders such as Mel Morris, chairman and owner of Derby County FC and an initial investor in King Digital Entertainment, the company behind the computer game sensation
Candy Crush.
New Derby Business School in the city centre
We're building a new Derby Business School, serving as an international centre of excellence. The superb new teaching facilities will build on our established reputation for inspirational teaching and research excellence, as we shape the next generation of qualified business leaders.
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
The MSc International Business and Finance (full-time) is a one-year programme with 2 taught semesters and an independent study research module running throughout the full twelve months.
Postgraduate Certificate
You will study modules such as:
International Economics for Business and Finance
It is impossible to analyse a country’s domestic economic situation without considering its international economic interactions. On this module, you’ll gain a deeper understanding of the macroeconomics of open economies, looking at international trade, national trade policies, trade theory, trade patterns and their impact on the world economies. You’ll also focus on the international financial environment, capital flows, balance of payments issues, foreign exchange markets and the interdependencies between international transactions and national monetary and fiscal policies.
Strategic Finance and Investment Behaviour
You will gain key skills in the relevant areas of mathematics and applied research that you need to study finance and investment behaviour at postgraduate level. This module develops your understanding of the traditional portfolio and securities analysis underpinning the efficient market approach. You will then use research tools and economic literature to examine the alternative behavioural views of financial decision making.
Strategic and Financial Performance
Management
Build your competence in using financially based performance metrics for strategic impact. The focus is on improving financial performance using the skills generally associated with management accounting at the operational and tactical level and financial management at the tactical and strategic level.
HRM in an International Context
This module provides a deep understanding of the external, internal, business and managerial contexts of contemporary organisations in times of uncertainty and change. You will explore how small, medium, large, multidivisional and multinational organisations respond to these contexts and how HR practitioners make appropriate choices and decisions within the constraints of external and internal forces.
Customer Behaviour and Decision Making
Explore the global and cultural contexts in which consumption takes place, as well as the social context for consumption, the main influences on consumer actions and the impact of strategic marketing decisions on customer behaviour.
Postgraduate Diploma
You will study modules such as:
International Business Theory and Strategy
Examining theories on the globalisation of business, we discuss the major economic shifts and global changes that are impacting on multi- and international organisations and their industries. You’ll focus on how various types of enterprises are expanding, becoming more reliant on international operations and developing strategies to internationalise their domestic operations.
International Banking and Finance Law
You’ll begin by exploring the laws that apply to financial regulation and banking within a global context. You’ll then examine the economic and political consequences of these laws to determine the extent to which the current regulatory system contributed to the recession and whether it needs remedial action.
Mergers and Acquisitions
Integrating a wide range of business functions, concepts and theories, you will consider mergers and acquisitions from a variety of global perspectives including organisational, behavioural, finance and regulation. The analysis includes the role of stakeholders and the increasing importance of strategic alliances between large corporations and national governments.
International Finance
Investigate how the global financial system works, examine international sources of finance and suitable investment opportunities, form a critical awareness of the risks associated with international trade, and evaluate how fluctuations in exchange rates affect a business.
Advanced Diversity and Inclusion
This module explores strategic workplace diversity and inclusion in terms of communication and training, addressing workplace behaviour and analysis of trends.  It looks at the role of line managers and other stakeholders in promoting a fair workplace culture, key to managing workplace effectiveness, and examines workforce well-being and engagement as well as the effects of inequality and segregation.
MSc
Independent Study: Research Methods (20 credits)
Independent Study: Dissertation (40 credits)
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Ours is a truly global university community and you will learn alongside students from around the world, deepening your understanding of both global business and cultural diversity.
The MSc International Business and Finance adopts a diverse range of teaching and learning methods to deliver a motivating study experience. At each level we provide support to help you develop your academic and applied skills and to reflect on your personal development. You will be inspired by a mix of:
lectures
group work
discussions
workshops
case studies
practical data analysis
personal networking
The teaching on campus is underpinned by study support materials made available online and you will have access to an extensive range of study texts and journals through our library. We offer specific guidance on how you can make the most of these materials. In an innovative move, we have also harnessed the PebblePad workbooks and app to integrate the development of your personal and professional employability skills with the personal tutorship you receive on the course.
Examples of projects
As the culmination of the MSc, the Independent Study module gives you the chance to focus on a theme which reflects your specialist professional interests. You will gain in-depth research and critical thinking skills which will serve you well in your future career.
The range of topics covered is vast. Recent examples have seen our students comparing different corporate governance structures in China and the UK; assessing the impact of new technologies and digitisation on banking and finance in Europe; examining the role of behavioural finance in microfinance projects, comparing FDI flows across developing countries, and examining the profitability of domestic and foreign banks in Nigeria.
We encourage our postgraduate students to publish their work as web blogs or in industry magazines where suitable.
Showcasing your skills
You could raise your professional profile by taking part in prestigious competitions and challenges. Derby students have, for instance, scooped major awards at the University Trading Challenge, which entails a simulated trading market to test students’ abilities to strategise, analyse and present their ideas to a panel of traders and bankers in the City of London. There are opportunities to enter other competitions such as the IBM University Business Challenge too.
How you are assessed
Our wide-ranging coursework assessment methods are designed to enhance your transferable skills. They may include:
essays, strategy documents and international business analysis reports
computer-based assignments
evaluation of Bloomberg information on international markets and organisations
portfolios of relevant work
presentations and videos
You may be working alone or as part of a team, and you could be marked on elements of reflective practice. Some modules may have a formal examination.
Who you will meet
You will be taught by an enthusiastic team who are experienced in all aspects of international business and whose research will enrich your learning. They are supported by industry experts, including our Visiting Professor of Banking, Professor Trevor Williams who is Chief Economist at Lloyds Bank PLC.
Melanie Powell -
Melanie leads this programme as well as our MSc International Business and HRM. She is widely published, joint author of a leading European Economics textbook and accredited at a high level with the Higher Education Academy. Her research focuses on applied economics, behavioural economics and financial market behaviour. As a teacher, she is committed to giving students a new way of looking at the world which nurtures their confidence, decision-making skills and a lifelong fascination with economics. She is the co-author of the College of Business monthly
Economic Bulletin
.
Dr Eugene Michaels
-
Eugene leads our suite of MSc International Business programmes. He is accredited with the Higher Education Academy and his focus is on encouraging students to apply economic reasoning and critical thinking. His academic interests are centred on behavioural economics and their implications for personal financial wellbeing (particularly pensions) and the application of behavioural insights to macroeconomic and business policymaking. He is the co-author of the College of Business monthly
Economic Bulletin
.
Dr Nicola Lynch
-
An applied economist who researches on public policy issues, Nicola leads a number of postgraduate modules and acts as a personal tutor for our MSc students. She is dedicated to providing a learning environment where students can develop academically and personally.
Entry requirements
You'll usually need:
A second class or higher undergraduate degree in a relevant area including: business, economics, management, accounting or finance, or another degree with relevant business experience
A desire to improve your mathematical and statistical skills and knowledge
If English is not your first language, you will also need IELTS 6.5 with 5.5 in each skills area.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to Finance Lab for databases and software for specified assessments
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Binding of dissertation
Optional costs not included in your fees
Printing
Textbooks
Opportunity to apply for CMI student membership and Institute of Directors membership
Directors membership
Some taster events- transport costs
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Full-time 12 month and part-time
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
The MSc International Business and Finance is your stepping stone to an exciting range of global career opportunities in fields such as risk management, consultancy, export finance, investment management and foreign exchange services.
You will be ideally placed to join the management and financial analyst training programmes of major international companies, trade and investment corporations or financial institutions. You will already have much of the knowledge you need to gain further professional qualifications while taking your career forward within these organisations.
You could also pursue a career in international trade government agencies, international business consultancies or firms involved in business process outsourcing. And you will find equally rewarding opportunities with SMEs, such as helping a small-scale exporting company to grow.
On completing your studies, you will join our worldwide network of highly successful alumni. Our graduates can be found working at HSBC Canada, PwC, Ernst & Young, the Central Bank of Oman and Imtiaz Al Arabia in Saudi Arabia. They are also pursuing careers with leading organisations in the region including Kuehne + Nagel, HL Plastics Ltd, Smiths of Derby and Nottingham City Council. Some have even set up their own international businesses.
Our
Careers and Employment Service
will provide you with support from day one of your course to ensure you leave Derby as a ‘work-ready’ graduate – industry aware, motivated and enterprising. Throughout your studies, you’ll also benefit from our Personal Development Planning (PDP) scheme which enables you to reflect on your learning and develop your career ambitions.
The support continues once you’ve completed your course too: you are entitled to further help and guidance from the Careers and Employment Service for up to three years after leaving the University.
Further study
Inspired by the intellectual challenge of the MSc, a number of our graduates choose to undertake PhD research and develop an academic career. Others progress to teacher training programmes.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
International Business MSc
International Business and HRM MSc
Accounting and Finance MSc
Master of Business Administration - MBA Global