Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/access-courses/international-foundation-programme/

International Foundation Programme - Access - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Access
International Foundation Programme
Access Course
International Foundation Programme
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year
International fee
£14,900 per year
(2024/25)
Start date
September
The International Foundation Programme is designed to give you a recognised English language qualification so you can progress onto your chosen degree. It will prepare you for a range of degrees in subjects such as Business, Events Management and Tourism, Law, Engineering, Design, Technology and Art and Design*.
Develop essential academic skills
The Programme will develop your academic writing, reading, listening and speaking skills. Drawing on the extensive materials from the University library, scientific journals and current news and media, you will learn contemporary research practices and explore academic studies within an evaluative and professional mindset. These skills are essential for effective study at the University of Derby and the course will help introduce you to:
referencing and paraphrasing
critical reading and writing
academic writing style and utilising your academic voice
professional presentations and public speaking
effective note taking and lecture and seminar skills
improving cohesion and coherence
and general English skills to support language development
Supporting your transition to UK study
This course is designed as an introduction to university level study and to the UK. It can be a daunting experience moving to a new country to study. Tutors and university services are ready to provide any support you need while settling into the university and in your exploration of studying and living in the UK. The International Foundation Programme is specially designed for international students whose first language is not English, and will include lots of support to improve your English language skills.
What our students think
Here's what previous students who have completed the International Foundation Programme have said about the course:
“Enrolling in the IFP course was very beneficial throughout my academic journey. Transitioning into my first year of the degree was smooth as I gained a solid foundation in understanding university expectations, involving essay writing and mastering the Harvard referencing style. The supplementary modules, essential for my upcoming degree, were particularly helpful. The course offered a valuable experience. I found great satisfaction in the program, appreciating the constant support and guidance from the highly helpful lecturers throughout my university life.”
Manuki Methyani, second-year BA (Hons) Interior Design student
“The IFP has been a great tool for my undergraduate journey. It gave me a good academic foundation on things I never knew as an international student. It helped improve my academic skills and writing such as essay writing, reports, debating, seminars, referencing, presentations and many more. Also, the other degree related modules were really beneficial as it made the progression into my desired degree a really smooth journey.
In addition, the support given by the lecturers in every aspect was top notch and the opportunity to study and share experiences with people from different backgrounds/cultures was amazing. It was really a memorable journey.  I’d recommend it to every international student.”
Oladipo Fashogbon, first-year BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering student
Course structure
You will study full-time (15+ hours of class per week plus self-study) for two semesters.
If you are an
international student
and do not have the qualifications and/ or English language level to start a degree, our International Foundation Programme will give you a recognised qualification so that you can move straight on to an undergraduate degree.
This course will help you to develop the English and academic skills that you will need during your degree.
You will study alongside other international students in a friendly and supportive environment.
Our expert tutors will guide and help you to develop your skills.
During the specialist modules, you may be taught by the lecturers who will also teach you during your degree.
Please note:
If you start the course in September you will finish in June*, and have the usual academic Christmas and Easter holiday breaks.
* Students taking technology subject modules only may finish in May.
What you will study
The International Foundation Programme allows you to develop your English language skills alongside studying a wide range of subject modules. The programme takes a full academic year to complete (September-June) and to pass it you must gain 120 credits.
All students must take two core modules:
Academic English
(60 credits)
This module aims to bring your overall level of English to the equivalent minimum of IELTs 6.0 in all skills (listening, speaking, reading and writing).
A pass in this module is a requirement to pass the programme and proceed to an undergraduate degree.
A pass in this module is also a legal requirement set by the UKBA in order for you to get a visa for undergraduate study (non EEA nationals).
Academic Skills
(20 credits)
This module will teach you the essential academic skills you will need for undergraduate study (eg academic research, project writing and giving presentations) focusing on areas which international students may find different to the academic culture in their own country.
You will then choose from the below subject based modules, embedded in the University's different colleges:
Subject based modules
Construction Science
Introduction to Design
Organisms and their Environments
Introduction to Environmental Science
Psychology of Education
Sociology of Education
Foundation Electrical and Electronic Principles
Preliminary Mathematics
Research Methods and Data Handling
Academic and Practical Skills
Creative Studies
Creative Skills: 2D and 3D Making
Fundamentals of Human Anatomy and Physiology
Principles of Chemistry
Contemporary Issues in Business
Business Communication and Decision Making
Further Mathematics
Introduction to Computational Mathematics
Programming Fundamentals
Engineering Science
Introduction to Structural Analysis and Dynamics
Introduction to Law
Mathematics
Introduction to Psychology
Fundamentals of Sport & Exercise Science
The Art of Sport and Exercise: A Foundation
These subject specific modules are designed to give you experience in your desired field of study. Upon completion of the International Foundation Programme you will be able to progress onto your chosen undergraduate course and having experience from these modules will enable a smooth transition to undergraduate study.
*All subject modules run according to student demand. If the specialist module closest to your degree is not available, you will be advised on the best alternative module(s) to take.
*Please note that for progression onto the Nursing and Healthcare undergraduate programmes additional checks are required. These are face to face Interviews to assess suitability and language capabilities. The outcome of the interview and availability of spaces on the course will determine whether an unconditional offer can be given.
Discover Derby Uni as an International student
We understand that joining us from outside the UK affects what you need to know about studying with us, so here are all the digital ways you can find out more about our University.
Find out how you can Discover Derby Uni
Find out how you can Discover Derby Uni
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Teaching is carried out in classes using group and discussion based teaching techniques to help build confidence and learn from each other. Tutors use academic articles, reading texts, listening excerpts and relevant current themes to stimulate discussion and provide opportunities for students to improve their written and spoken English.
Assessments are both formal and informal and include language tests, group discussions, written reports and presentations.
Who will teach you
Michael Croker (FHEA)
Programme Leader
Michael Croker (FHEA)
As a tutor with the Derby English Language Centre (DELC) Michael Croker runs the International Foundation Programme (IFP) here at the University of Derby. He also helps run the In-sessional courses provided by the DELC, which offers su...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
The equivalent of GCSE English language (grade A-C or 9-4)
The equivalent of GCSE maths (grade A-C or 9-4)
A personal statement to demonstrate a commitment and ability to study at this level
Please note that should you wish to continue directly onto a degree programme you will need to check the minimum entry requirements for that programme to ensure you are able to progress.
English language requirements
IELTS: 4.5 (with at least 4.0 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2024/25
Full-time
Part-time
UK
N/A
N/A
International
£14,900 per year
N/A
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
International students
Full-time international students applying to start in September should apply for this course through UCAS or you can apply directly to the University for an undergraduate course if you’re not applying to any other UK university in the same year.
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
After successfully completing this course, you can go on to study a
range of undergraduate degree courses
at the University of Derby. Please contact our admissions team for further details.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Michael Croker
M.Croker@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 592501
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.