Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/hospitality-management-courses/international-hospitality-business-management-top-up-ba-hons-online/

International Hospitality Business Management (Top-Up) BA (Hons) - Hospitality Management - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Hospitality Management
International Hospitality Business Management (Top-Up) BA (Hons)
Apply now
Apply now
Undergraduate Course
International Hospitality Business Management (Top-Up)
BA (Hons)
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 1-2 years
UK fee
£5,250
(2024/25)
‡
International fee
£5,250
(2024/25)
‡
Start dates
September, January, May
Location
Online
Accredited by the
Institute of Hospitality
, this online International Hospitality Business Management BA (Top-Up) degree has been designed following extensive consultation with the hospitality industry to ensure you obtain the skills and understanding of the critical aspects affecting hospitality management. It will provide you with a range of opportunities to develop the skills and knowledge essential to the contemporary hospitality industry, as well as expertise in specific areas of management.
You will develop a critical understanding of the forces influencing the international hospitality industry, be able to evaluate the role of core management functions, their application and contribution to quality and performance, as well as develop strategic plans that can respond to the changing demands within the international hospitality environment.
This course can help you to stand out in the competitive and continually expanding industry – research has shown that qualifications really make a difference to career progression in the hospitality arena. If you already hold an HND or Foundation degree, you can gain a full degree in 1-2 years with this online course.
Alternatively, our
University Advanced Diploma in International Hospitality Business Management
can be achieved in just 12 months by completing three core 20 credit modules - ideal for continuing professional development (CPD) or as a platform to continue study to a full bachelor's degree.
Institute of Hospitality Educational Membership Scheme (EMS)
Through our partnership with the Institute of Hospitality you'll be given free access to the
Institute's Educational Membership Scheme
(EMS) once you've enrolled onto this course. This gives you access to management guides, monthly specialist newsletters, e-journals, webinars and much more.
92%
agree that the university offers them value for money
University of Derby Survey 2022
A talk from our academic
Our academic for Hospitality, Yukari Iguchi, talks about our online Hospitality courses.
View our online Hospitality courses video transcript
What you will study
You can
view the study plan for this online course
.
If we have insufficient numbers of students interested in an optional module, this may not be offered. In addition, where demand is high, some modules may be subject to a cap.
To complete this top-up degree you will need to complete four 20 credit core modules and choose two optional 20 credit modules in your preferred areas (120 credits in total).
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
With a choice of dates to start your course (September, January or May) and interactive online learning materials, you've got the flexibility to study whenever and wherever is most convenient for you. The course modules still operate within a fixed trimester but you can choose to study during the day, evenings or at the weekend instead of having to attend fixed lectures.
Pace of study
The academic year is made up of three 10-week terms, known as trimesters. We recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete one 20-credit module over a 10-week trimester.
If you opt to undertake the accelerated study plan whereby you will study two modules in one trimester, we recommend 40 hours of study per week.
Should you decide to study on the accelerated rate you should ensure that you have the capacity to fully engage with your studies and achieve the best grades and final award. If you choose to study on the accelerated rate, you will need to balance approximately 40 hours of study per week alongside your professional and personal life and commitments.
It may be useful to consider studying one module at the standard rate of study before deciding whether to then increase to the accelerated rate of study.
There will be 1/2 virtual classrooms over the 10 week trimester and if you are unable to attend you will be able to download the session to view in your own time.
Assessment method
This course is assessed through 100% coursework with a range of methods, such as essays, research reports, presentations, group work and practical reports.
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Who will teach you
Yukari Iguchi
Programme Leader
Yukari Iguchi
Academic Lead for Hospitality and Business, Yukari Iguchi, is responsible for a range of online hospitality and business programmes. She has professional experience in the international hospitality industry and since she joined ac...
View full staff profile
→
Explore all teaching staff on this course
Get a taste of the course content
Our online International hospitality business management (Top-Up) BA (Hons) course taster will give you an idea of how online learning works. It includes a selection of content from a course module so you can see what some of our learning material looks like.
You will need to complete a short form to access the course taster.
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Entry requirements
You need to have both of the following:
An HND or Foundation degree in a relevant subject
A minimum of 6 months working in the hospitality industry on a full-time basis
If you have extensive industry experience at supervisory or management levels but do not meet the academic entry criteria above, we can consider your application - speak to our advisors for further information and guidance.
When you apply, please send us a transcript of the modules you've already studied so that we can make sure your HND or Foundation degree is compatible with this course. If you would like to be considered based on your professional experience, please send us a detailed CV.
Exemptions
If you have already successfully completed the
Confederation of Tourism and Hospitality (CTH) Level 6 Diploma in Tourism and Hospitality Management
you may be eligible for exemptions on our BA (Hons) International Hospitality Business Management (Top-Up) degree.
You may be exempt from studying up to 3 modules on this course if you have successfully completed one or more of the following units in the CTH Level 6 Diploma in Tourism and Hospitality Management. The table below explains the module exemptions available for each corresponding CTH unit.
CTH unit
Module Exemptions
Business Strategy for Hospitality and Tourism
Strategic Hospitality Operations Management
Quality Management for Hospitality and Tourism
Managing Service Quality
The Strategic Impact of the Business Environment
Strategy in the Global Marketplace
If you wish for your previous study with CTH to be considered for exemption on this course please provide the transcripts for the units you have completed as evidence when submitting your application.
English language qualifications
If English is not your first language, or you have not successfully completed your highest level of qualification in English, you will need an English language qualification. For this course you will need at least one of the following:
IELTS (International English Language Testing System) 6.0
TOEFL 550 (paper based) 213 (computer based) or 80 (internet based)
Pearson Test of Academic English: 51
Cambridge Advanced Certificate: Pass
London Tests of English: we accept level 4 for undergraduate courses
International GCE O-level English Language: Grade C
International GCSE English/English as a Second Language: Grade C
Find out more about our English language requirements
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£875
6
£5,250
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£905
6
£5,430
About your fees
This figure would be the total cost of this course based on the fee in the current academic year. However, please note that fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase if your course lasts longer than one year.
If you are required to undertake any associate study or additional study as a condition of your offer for the programme, please be aware that the cost for this may be in addition to the programme cost stated above.
Flexible payment plans available
Choose from
two payment plan options
:
Pay monthly and only for the modules you are studying
Pay your full course fees upfront and avoid annual increases
Undergraduate funding options
Depending on where you are from in the UK or EU, and on your pace of study, you may be eligible for an
undergraduate student loan
. Accessible through Student Finance, this is a non-income based loan to meet the cost of tuition fees.
If you are considering applying for a student loan, please also see our additional guidance on
Loans for Online Students
.
If you already hold an honours degree, and you are looking to re-skill or up-skill, you may still be eligible for a loan to study this course.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Current CV
Written reference supplied on headed paper from either a manager, supervisor, tutor or teacher
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Application deadlines
All of our online courses have set start dates throughout the year. We require time to review your application and get back to you with a response before your course starts. Take a look at
information regarding applying for an online course
to see full details of deadlines and term dates.
Careers
The hospitality industry is very competitive and continually expanding, so there are many opportunities for managers who want to work in the UK and overseas.
Students who undertake the BA (Hons) International Hospitality Business Management will be able to pursue a range of exciting careers within this sector. A significant number of our students attain a good degree and have gone onto management positions in the industry or further progressed their careers to higher positions within the industry. Previous students have gone on to find senior roles in the UK, Europe and the US, including one graduate who was employed at Gleneagles in Scotland.
As you’ll have a well-respected degree that’s been accredited and recognised by the Institute of Hospitality, you should be in a great position to apply for roles in areas such as:
hospitality management
leisure
licensed retail
in-house catering
outside contract catering for events
accommodation
functions
events, banqueting and conferences
human resources
sales and marketing
operations management
This programme also provides a foundation for further study at postgraduate level in hospitality or similar areas of study such as tourism, leisure, or business studies, including the MSc International Hospitality Management.
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
International Hospitality Business Management University Advanced Diploma
Hospitality Business Management University Diploma
Online short courses