Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/online/introduction-to-innovative-21st-century-teaching/

Introduction to Innovative 21st Century Teaching - Online short courses - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Online short courses
Introduction to Innovative 21st Century Teaching
Book now
Book now
Short course
Introduction to Innovative 21st Century Teaching
Book now
Book now
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Online course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Learning outcomes
Fees and funding
Course requirements
Online course details
Price
£400 (includes VAT)
Next course date
Open now
Duration
4 units, 5 hours of study per unit
CPD hours
20 CPD hours
Delivery
Self-guided online learning
Location
Online
Online course description
Ideally suited to those who are keen to learn more about the use of technology in teaching and learning, this professional development short course offers a valuable opportunity to explore the three ‘C’s of the 21
st
century within the context of teaching: Curiosity, Curation and Community. You will benefit from learning about the best practice use of technology to support the three ‘C’s of innovative 21
st
century teaching.
This course offers a practical introduction to the use of digital technologies for educators. As you embark on your digital journey, you will look at themes such as Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) or the application of social media to support learning. You will also explore new and emerging technologies whilst considering their uses within teaching and learning as well as discovering new digital horizons.
Who is the course for?
Though open to anyone, this professional development course is particularly suited to those working in education or training, including organisational training providers, schools and academies, colleges and Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) such as:
Aspiring teaching assistants
Trainee teachers
Teaching and training professionals
Educational leaders
This professional development course will provide you with:
A better understanding of the concept of 21st century teaching in a local and global context
An understanding of the application of various technology tools that can be used to enhance learning
The ability to apply learnings from this course within your own teaching or learning environment
View Introduction to Innovative 21st Century Teaching video transcript
Structure, certificates and assessment
You will study this course 100% online. It comprises a range of activities including:
Finding out about different approaches to Technology Enhanced Learning and how they have been used in education and training
Try out a range of technologies in a safe environment with like-minded professionals
Undertaking activities to help you to reflect
Reading extracts from texts and academic journals
Watching short videos
There is no obligation for you to undertake every activity, but being involved in all aspects of the course will help you to achieve a well-rounded knowledge.
There is no graded assessment. Instead, you will receive a badge for each completed Unit, and then upon completion of the whole course, you will be awarded with an e-certificate.
An accredited provider of the CPD Standards Office
We are proud to be an accredited provider of the CPD Standards Office for our online short courses and free courses, demonstrating that they conform to CPD best practice and are appropriate for inclusion in a formal CPD record.
Course units
The course is made up of 4 units, each will require approximately 5 hours of study.
The course is designed to gradually develop your competence and confidence in the use of digital technologies in teaching and learning.on
Unit 1 - What is innovative 21st century teaching?
The aim of this unit is to introduce you to the concept of the 21st century teacher and to encourage you to embark on your digital journey and inspire curiosity.
Unit 2 - The democratisation of learning
This unit will look at the growing popularity and usage of Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) and Open Educational Resources (OERs) to support all aspects of learning. During this module you will hear first-hand about what creates a successful MOOC and contemporary research conducted by our Academic Innovation Hub.
Unit 3 - Social Learning
This unit invites you will review case studies of social media usage in education and to consider how aspects of popular social media might be applied in the classroom.
Unit 4 - Emerging Technology
In this unit, you will explore emerging technology and it’s use within education and training. This unit brings together thought leaders in Technology Enhanced Learning who discuss what the future might hold.
Learning outcomes
Heighten your curiosity about technology enhanced learning whilst developing valuable digital skills
Experiment and curate digital content
Develop the right skills to confidently adapt to an ever-changing digital word
Fees and funding
Fee:
£400 (includes VAT)
Course requirements
The course is widely available for anyone to take part in regardless of age, location or education status.
However, there are some basic requirements. You will need access to the internet whether it is on your PC, tablet, mobile or other electronic devices, as well as a valid email address to register with our online learning environment in order to take part in the course.
You will need to agree to the terms and conditions before you start the course which will be available when you enrol.
Learners should have an understanding of the English Language and the ability to study in English.
How to enrol
All of our short courses are delivered through an easy-to-use online learning platform, which you can enrol from directly.
Empower your workforce with block bookings
Take advantage of a short courses block booking to upskill your employees. Our short courses run on-campus and online and include new legislation and other up-to-the-minute issues. Get in touch today and we will tailor a package to meet the needs of your business.
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Course policies
Learner charter
Cancellation policy
Code of conduct for learner discipline
Terms and conditions