Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/ergonomic-courses/investigation-analysis-certificate-of-credit/

Investigation and Analysis Certificate of Credit - Ergonomics and Human Factors - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Ergonomics and Human Factors
Investigation and Analysis Certificate of Credit
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Investigation and Analysis
Certificate of Credit
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 10 weeks
UK fee
£1,050
(2024/25)
‡
International fee
£1,050
(2024/25)
‡
Start dates
September, January, May
Location
Online
This course is an optional module within our online MSc Ergonomics and Human Factors and can be completed as a standalone 10-week course. You will gain 20 credits at level 7 with a Certificate of Credit to evidence your learning achievement.
It is ideally suited to those who want to know more about the research design, ethical practice in research and qualitative and quantitative approaches to research.
It will develop your ability to perform appropriate statistical analyses to address research questions about human behaviour. You will learn to design, conduct and report an ethically sound, quantitative research study exploring human behaviour, and develop a critical understanding by evaluating qualitative research designs and findings.
You'll cover philosophical background to empirical research and investigation plus generating and exploring hypotheses and empirical research questions and qualitative approaches. For example: assumptions and basics, epistemology, differences between methods and methodology, approaches to qualitative methods, validity and reliability.
It also covers quantitative approaches, for example: Assumptions and basics, descriptive tests, exploring data, parametric and non-parametric inferential analyses, testing for differences, testing for relationships, effect sizes and power analysis.
On successful completion of the course, you will be able to:
Develop an ethically and methodologically sound empirical research study exploring a pertinent psychological theory
Analyse, interpret, and critically evaluate the findings of the study to form coherent conclusions about the research question(s)
Critically appraise a contemporary qualitative research paper using selected criteria.
This is a CIEHF Accredited Training Course.
Delivery from experienced academics
We've over 20 years' experience in the delivery of online ergonomics courses which means you can expect the highest standards of teaching and education. Our specialist ergonomics and human factors academic team will guide you through the module, providing regular contact and feedback to ensure you stay on track. You can be assured of a supportive and structured learning experience and our online learning advisors are on hand to provide non-academic support throughout your studies.
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
The module is delivered 100% online over 10 weeks using a range of interactive learning materials and some live classroom sessions. Provision is made for discussion and interaction with tutors and fellow students through live virtual classroom sessions and online discussion forums. You will study alongside students who are on the Ergonomics and Human Factors MSc, giving you a wider perspective of cognitive ergonomics and psychology from your global student community.
Pace of study
We recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete one 20-credit module over a 10-week trimester.
There will be 1/2 virtual classrooms over the 10 week trimester and if you are unable to attend you will be able to download the session to view in your own time.
Assessment method
This course is assessed through 100% coursework with a range of methods, such as essays, research reports, presentations, group work and practical reports.
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Who will teach you
Dr Victoria Filingeri
Programme Leader
Dr Victoria Filingeri
Academic Lead in Ergonomics, Dr Victoria Filingeri, completed her BSc in Psychology with Ergonomics, MSc in Health Psychology, PhD and postdoctoral research at Loughborough University, looking into crowd behaviour, rail safety (funded ...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You should possess one of the following:
A UK undergraduate degree or equivalent international qualification
Equivalent professional qualification in a relevant discipline
We will also consider applications which demonstrate evidence of relevant key practical experience and work-based training.
English language qualifications
If English is not your first language, or you have not successfully completed your highest level of qualification in English, you will need an English language qualification. For this course you will need at least one of the following:
IELTS 6.5 (minimum of 6.5 in each module)
TOEFL 550 (paper based) 213 (computer based) or 80 (internet based)
Cambridge Advanced Certificate: Pass
London Tests of English: we accept level 5 for postgraduate courses
International GCE O Level English Language: Grade C
International GCSE English/English as a Second Language: Grade C
ASE Proficiency: Pass
Find out more about our English language requirements
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£1,050
1
£1,050
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£1,080
1
£1,080
About your fees
Prices are correct for the year of entry shown. These are subject to annual increase in subsequent academic years.
Flexible payment plan available
Pay monthly
for the course that you are studying
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Current CV
Where you do not have an undergraduate qualification (but do have substantial experience in the field), a reference is required to verify your ability to work to a masters level. The written reference should be supplied on headed paper from either a manager, supervisor, tutor or teacher who has worked to a masters level or above
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Application deadlines
All of our online courses have set start dates throughout the year. We require time to review your application and get back to you with a response before your course starts. Take a look at
information regarding applying for an online course
to see full details of deadlines and term dates.
Careers
This Investigation and Analysis Certificate of Credit focuses on you obtaining 20 credits at level 7 for your CPD.
The Chartered Institute of Ergonomics and Human Factors (CIEHF)
is an excellent resource for employment opportunities and for information about gaining experience in ergonomics.
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
Ergonomics and Human Factors MSc
Ergonomics and Human Factors Postgraduate Certificate
Ergonomics and Human Factors Postgraduate Diploma