Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/journalism-courses/journalism-ma/

Journalism MA - Journalism - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Journalism
Journalism MA
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Journalism
MA
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
The highlights
This is a flexible Master’s degree in Journalism which allows you to pick modules to focus on your interests and aspirations. You are introduced to the role of journalism in democracies and the impact journalism and news media has on peoples lives and societies. Your research, critical thinking and research skills will be developed culminating in a thesis or practice based project.
You will be a curious individual who question the world we live in and want to interrogate why society operates as it does
You will be taught in our purpose build journalism facilities which include radio studios, a television studio, video editing suites, Mac suites and a newsroom featuring the latest software
We offer three
undergraduate journalism courses
.
Focus on what matters to you
This programme is designed to give you the opportunity to specialise in the areas that interest you.
You will examine key debates and current affairs, national and international and look at the impact upon societies. There are options to tailor the study to your interests. Your thesis or practice based project can be on a topic, subject of genre of journalism of your choice.
A blend of new and traditional skills
There has never been a more exciting or challenging time to study journalism.
You are encouraged to critically view news and current affairs nationally and internationally. This will develop your skills in analysing and synthesising information and presenting your own arguments.
There are optional modules in:
Data Journalism and Data Science, which will help you understand data analysis and how it is applied by journalists
Investigating Journalism and Politics enables you to examine the relationship between journalism and politics and critically explore notions of power and influence in the reporting of politics, nationally and internationally
Audience Studies offers a critical introduction to the ways in which the media engages with audiences.
Our academics have extensive links with media companies, individual journalists, and other industry organisations such as regulators and societies. You can use these links to help you find work experience and projects with national, regional, and local newspapers, BBC and independent radio, specialist reporting groups such as the BBC’s combined data unit, the Centre for Investigative Journalism, and many others.
Building on my natural curiosity and love of story-writing, this programme gave me the information and abilities I needed to develop into a well-rounded journalist. I also learnt from my fellow students from different ethnic backgrounds, who brought in a variety of experiences, viewpoints, and insightful debates.
Ruth Mayowa Oketunde
MA Journalism
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You will study modules such as:
Core modules
Global Challenges in Journalism
Project Modelling and Methods
Master’s Thesis in Journalism
Major Journalism Project
Transforming Journalism
PGDip Independent Study
Optional modules
Audience Studies
Freelance Journalism
Digital Skills
Investigating Journalism and Politics
Data Journalism and Data Science
Work experience in Journalism
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
We use a range of approaches to enable your learning. These include lectures, seminars, tutorials, debates, workshops and guest speakers from the media industry. In addition, there is an emphasis on self-directed study, as you would expect for a masters.
We have a blended learning strategy, which means that in addition to face-to-face teaching, you can also find materials for all modules on the virtual learning environment, which will support your independent work.
How you are assessed
There are a variety of ‘summative assessments’ towards the end of each module, such as essays, oral presentations, reports that draw on qualitative and quantitative data, and critically reflective pieces.
As well as the summative assessments, we will ask you to undertake regular small-scale tasks — such as asking you to explain theories and concepts or asking you to produce a small piece of journalistic content. We’ll provide feedback on these activities to help you evaluate your own strengths, weaknesses, abilities and talents: a critical part of masters-level study.
The course and teaching team helped me understand the nuances of journalism in practice and helped me hone various skills needed for succeeding as a journalist. Interacting with people from various cultures, thanks to the university’s high diversity quotient, helped me widen my horizons and gain perspectives I wouldn’t have had otherwise.
Sree Murali
MA Journalism
Who will teach you
Dr Maria Urbina Montana
Programme Leader
Dr Maria Urbina Montana
Maria Urbina Montana is a Senior Lecturer in Journalism. Her research interests focus on news media and Latin American politics, particularly social media, nationalism, and neoliberal change in Chile and the Southern cone. She has been...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You will need a 2:1 undergraduate degree or relevant experience.
English language skills
If English is not your first language you will need to have passed the International English Language Teaching System (IELTS) at the overall level IELTS 6.5, including a minimum score of 5.5 in each test category. (Where appropriate the university’s International Admissions office can give further details, including information regarding approved IELTS test centres.)
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to the Equipment Centre which stocks a huge range of cameras, audio equipment, and accessories which are available for booking by students at no cost
Various field trips, for example; Alton Towers, Shrovetide Football, the Bradford National Media Museum and Escape rooms
Mandatory trips to media companies or other interesting organisations. Previous trips have included visiting BBC Radio Derby, the Derby Telegraph, the Nottingham Post and BBC News and Sport at Salford
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Some equipment including storage drives (approx. £10) and external storage drives (approx. £50 - £100) for camera use
Optional costs not included in your fees
It is useful but not essential to have a smartphone (£50 - £750)
Some students choose to buy accessories for the phone such as external microphones (approx. £10 - £15) and tripods (£5 - £25)
Some students also find it useful to purchase their own laptop for use in the field but this is not required (from £150)
It is also possible that you will want to travel to cover particular news stories - as this is not required by the course, the cost is not covered in your fees
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
This MA provides great preparation for a career in journalism or communications. You could go on to work for local, regional, and national newspapers, the BBC or independent radio, specialist magazines, and a wide variety of online businesses.
Alternatively, you could work in PR and marketing roles for public, private or third sector organisations, thanks to your advanced writing skills, knowledge of traditional and digital forms of communication, and your ability to gather and interpret qualitative and quantitative data.
The intellectual and research skills you can gain on this Masters — particularly if you write a thesis — can also be ideal preparation for a PhD in journalism; something we offer at Derby.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.