Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/journalism-courses/journalism-ba-hons/

Journalism BA (Hons) - Journalism - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Journalism
Journalism BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Journalism
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 Years,  Part-time: 4-6 Years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
P500
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
The highlights
Study our brand-new curriculum, which has been updated to keep pace with the industry. Exciting new modules include Live Radio and Podcasting, The Newsroom, and Fashion Journalism.
Through coursework and placements, you’ll gain direct experience of producing stories for online, print and broadcast formats.
Learn from tutors that are highly experienced and well connected, having worked in online, print and broadcast roles for organisations like the BBC, ITV News, and local media outlets.
Hear the latest insights, get advice from the best in industry and build contacts. We recently visited the BBC’s flagship political programme,
Sunday
, and took part in a
Q&A with Laura Kuenssberg
.
After the first year, choose many of your modules and focus on areas that interest you, such as PR and social media, politics, live radio and podcasting, or data journalism.
100
%
of students agreed that teaching staff make the subject engaging
BA (Hons) Journalism - National Student Survey 2024
Top
15
for career prospects
Journalism - Guardian University Guide 2025
Journalism students on a field trip to Broadcasting House in London to meet the BBC's Laura Kuenssberg.
A global journalism degree for 2023 and beyond
Journalism is a global, multiplatform industry that evolves as quickly as the technology that supports it does, so we've ensured our course evolves too.
Take our new Podcasting and Live Radio module — an optional module in year three. There’s been a huge growth in podcasts and smart-speaker journalism
over the last few years, so we’ll teach you how to have fun creating niche podcasts and how to monetise these in a saturated market.
Then there’s our core modules in year two, The Newsroom and Future Trends in Journalism. In The Newsroom, you will take part in ‘news days’ across all platforms of journalism (broadcast, online, and print) working in groups to meet the challenges of a live scenario with fixed goals and a strict deadline. Meanwhile, in Future Trends in Journalism, you will learn how to use smart devices (e.g. phones and speakers) and associated technologies to tell the story and understand how your audience views content on those devices.
We’ve also given the course a more global outlook, considering journalism’s role in global affairs, politics and international relations, and decolonisation.
Find the stories that interest you
This degree starts by teaching you the essential knowledge and skills that all journalists or content creators need today — skills in researching, sourcing interviewees, writing news articles, producing online content (including search engine optimisation: SEO), and recording and editing audio and video. We’ll also cover an essential element of all journalism degrees, Media Law, but you’ll study this in a creative and fun way.
From year two onwards, you will have more freedom to determine the content you want to create and the format you want to make it in. Through optional modules and assignments, you can set your own agenda and go out and find stories to report on, whether those are about politics, business, fashion, sport, music or food. We'll also provide opportunities for you to cover local events, such as fashion shows, sports competitions, music concerts and more.
Publish your work
We give all journalism students an online platform for their work: the
StoryHub
website and
Twitter feed
, so you can publish as frequently as you want. You’ll also get the opportunity to gain work experience, and even paid work, with media outlets such as
Reach plc
and the BBC. Every year, our students cover the unique
Ashbourne Shrovetide Football event
, producing content that is often used by the BBC and Sky.
Plus, if you choose to join our student-run communications agency, you can get extra experience of working for real clients and further insight into how content is used for PR and marketing purposes.
Building industry knowledge and contacts
This BA (Hons) Journalism features a packed programme of guest speakers and events designed to boost your industry contacts and career prospects. For example:
We visited the BBC’s flagship political programme,
Sunday
, and took part in a Q&A with Laura Kuenssberg.
We hold an annual Employability Day. This gives you a unique opportunity to speak one-to-one with media and journalism professionals and ask them anything you want.
Capturing the spirit of Shrovetide Football
Read how our Journalism students navigated challenging terrain, gained valuable experience and became published journalists while covering one of Derbyshire's proudest traditions.
Be inspired by our students
Be inspired by our students
Top tips for Journalism students from BBC’s Laura Kuenssberg
Our Journalism students had the chance to have a unique behind-the-scenes visit to Broadcasting House in London to meet the first female political editor of the BBC, Laura Kuenssberg.
Find out more
Find out more
Outstanding facilities
You'll be based at our Markeaton Street and Kedleston Road sites, which have everything a journalist needs. Our facilities include three radio studios, a fully equipped television studio, video editing suites, Mac suites and a newsroom featuring the latest software, including Adobe Creative Suite.
Our radio studios have recently been refurbished and fitted with
Calrec technology
— a leading range of broadcast audio mixing consoles and equipment. All large media companies are now migrating to this technology, so we're ahead of the game.
All of this means you’ll be confident using industry-standard technology, giving you an advantage when you're looking for a job.
Study abroad
We can offer opportunities for you to spend time in another country, including studying at our partner universities or working on a placement or internship.
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You will learn in a variety of ways, including through:
workshops
news days
work experience/real projects for employers
lectures and seminars, including guest lectures from key industry figures
fieldtrips
technical visits
conferences.
Assessment
You will be assessed by coursework assignments, which may include:
features and news articles
videography and podcasting
live broadcasting
social media campaigns
smartphone and smart speaker journalism
academic essays.
These assignments will enable you to build up a wide-ranging portfolio of work to show employers when you graduate.
Who you'll meet
Neil Roberts
is a senior lecturer who has spent 25 years working in newspapers and TV, including the
Liverpool Echo
, the
News of the World
, BBC Sport, ITN and IMG. He’s worked on major stories such as the death of Princess Diana and the 2005 London bombings, and has interviewed stars such as Paul McCartney and David Beckham.
Neil Manship
is a senior lecturer who began his career as sports reporter at the
Derby Telegraph.
He then moved into radio and TV, working as a reporter, producer and presenter for the BBC. This included 13 years as a lead producer and manager for
BBC Look North
. He’s most proud of producing ‘Programme of the Year’ in The BBC Nations and Regions Awards.
Richard Bowyer
is a senior lecturer an award-winning journalist with more than 30 years’ experience. He’s worked on numerous Midlands’ newspapers, including the
Wolverhampton Express and Star
,
Lincolnshire Echo
and
Stoke Sentinel
, rising through the ranks to become Editor-in-Chief of Staffordshire Sentinel Newspapers (his career highlight) and later, Group Editor of West Staffordshire Newspapers and its associated websites.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Alex Canner
Programme Leader
Alex Canner
Alex is a Senior Lecturer in Journalism and specialises in broadcast media, teaching all aspects of writing, recording and editing techniques across TV, radio and Multimedia.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
Offers will be made initially based on your application, including predicted grades and/or grades you have already achieved. You may be given the opportunity, within your offer letter, to submit a portfolio. If you submit a strong portfolio we will make you an unconditional offer, to reflect the quality of your work and your potential.
Additional entry requirements
Portfolio: Recommended -
view portfolio details
English language requirements
IELTS: 7.0 (with at least 6.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to the Equipment Centre which stocks a huge range of cameras, audio equipment, and accessories which are available for booking by students at no cost
Various day field trips – for example, these have included Alton Towers, Shrovetide Football, the Bradford National Media Museum, and Escape rooms in the past year
Mandatory trips to media companies or other interesting organisations. Previous trips have included visiting BBC Radio Derby, the Derby Telegraph, the Nottingham Post and BBC News and Sport at Salford
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Some equipment including storage drives (about £10) and external storage drives (£50 - £100) for use with cameras.
Optional costs not included in your fees
It is useful but not essential to have a smartphone (£50 - £750)
Some students choose to buy accessories for the phone such as external microphones (approx. £10 - £15) and tripods (£5 - £25)
Some students also find it useful to purchase their own laptop for use in the field but this is not required (from £150)
It is also possible that you will want to travel to cover particular news stories - as this is not required by the course, the cost is not covered in your fees.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
This course develops the broad range of knowledge and skills you need to become a journalism professional, adept in the production of content for multiple platforms: print, online and broadcast. These skills can take you anywhere in the world.
You will also be well-suited to roles in politics, content creation, marketing, communications/PR, social media, the wider creative industries, as well as law and public administration. In fact, the research and communication skills of a journalist are transferable to a huge variety of graduate level jobs.
Our journalism graduates are now working for the BBC, Reach plc, Westminster, ITV, as well as in specific industries such as automotive and fashion.
If you would like to continue your studies at masters level, our
MA Journalism
is the ideal next step.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Part-time
Other courses you might like
Football Journalism BA (Hons)
Specialist Sports Journalism BA (Hons)
Chat to our students
−