Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/journalism-courses/journalism-ba-hons-foundation/

Journalism with Foundation Year BA (Hons) - Journalism - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Journalism
Journalism with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Journalism with Foundation Year
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years (5 years with placement year)
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
P501
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
We teach the next generation of talented journalists. This degree gives you all the skills you need to go behind the headlines and build a career as a journalist in the age of the internet.
Journalism at Derby has been ranked Top 30 in the Guardian University Guide 2022
Choose our foundation year route if you want to strengthen your knowledge and skills before you progress to stage one of the BA (Hons) Journalism degree
Gain substantial practical experience of researching and producing powerful print, audio, video and online stories
Get to grips with the latest techniques and technologies which are transforming journalism in an era of digital news
Enjoy work placements with media organisations in the UK or overseas
Hone your skills in our outstanding facilities which include TV and radio studios as well as a fully equipped newsroom
Take the chance to specialise in a journalistic genre of your choice – from film to fashion, sport to crime, science to politics
Prepare for a rewarding career in journalism, online or broadcast media production, PR, advertising, corporate communications, law, public administration or politics
Spend time studying abroad in America or Europe
We've developed this course with your future in mind. New technologies are revolutionising the industry and the ways in which people receive their news. We’ll equip you to be a multi-skilled multimedia professional who can rise to the challenge.
Your Foundation Year provides you with a firm grounding in the skills and knowledge you need and introduces you to the subject of journalism, enabling you to achieve your full honours degree in four years.
New skills for a new era
In an age of digital news, there has never been a more exciting or challenging time to study journalism. This dynamic course enables you to produce compelling content for both traditional and emerging media platforms.
You'll gain the core journalistic research and writing skills as well as studying media law, ethics and public administration. At the same time, you’ll develop a multi-platform mindset - producing print, radio and TV reports as well as creating blogs and podcasts, digital photos, audio/video stories and content for websites and external devices.
Hone your expertise in news gathering
Throughout your studies, you’ll have significant hands-on experience of newsgathering and reporting - developing your news values and working across a designated ‘news patch’ to source, research and produce original stories.
You’ll visit courts and public meetings, make your own contacts, cover community issues, conduct interviews and produce fair, balanced and accurate reports.
Exciting work experience opportunities
As part of your course, you’ll gain practical work experience with a media organisation, in the UK or overseas. All our students are expected to have completed at least 15 days of work placement by the time they graduate.
Drawing on our strong partnerships with local and national media, you can choose a range of work-based modules to expand your professional know-how and boost your CV. We also encourage you to work with charities and arts organisations to gain an insight into why media matters so much. In addition, you can work for various print, radio and online news outlets at the University, which is itself a rich source of news, debate and topical comment.
Outstanding facilities
You'll be based at the main campus at Kedleston Road and at our Markeaton Street site where you'll study in our excellent facilities including three radio studios, a fully equipped television studio, video editing suites, Mac suites and a newsroom featuring the latest software.
We're an Apple accredited centre and you’ll work with the industry standard recording and editing software that is used worldwide. It means you’ll be both confident and competent with up-to-the-minute technology - giving you a real advantage when you're looking for a job.
100
%
of students agreed that teaching staff make the subject engaging
BA (Hons) Journalism - National Student Survey 2024
Top
15
for career prospects
Journalism - Guardian University Guide 2025
Capturing the spirit of Shrovetide Football
Read how our Journalism students navigated challenging terrain, gained valuable experience and became published journalists while covering one of Derbyshire's proudest traditions.
Be inspired by our students
Be inspired by our students
Variety and versatility
Our emphasis is on developing creative, versatile journalists with expertise in a variety of production techniques. You'll also have the chance to concentrate on a journalistic genre that particularly interests you.
Alongside your traditional reporting skills, we want you to develop a passion for ideas and creative communication, to seek out people and find the human stories behind the headlines. You'll also focus on intellectual and critical development, study research techniques and gain an understanding of audience theory.
Study in America
You can choose to study part of your degree at one of
our partner universities
in America:
Eastern Michigan University
Keene State College in New Hampshire
Longwood University in Virginia
Indiana University - Purdue University Indianapolis
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
During your foundation year you will be assessed mainly by coursework, and with some in-class tests.
For the rest of your degree you’ll be assessed in several ways, including academic essays, audio and video reporting, case studies, editing skills, examinations, extended reports, journalistic writing, presentations, process analyses, production design and content production, production skills in image manipulation, reflective diaries, report writing and self-evaluation.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Alex Canner
Programme Leader
Alex Canner
Alex is a Senior Lecturer in Journalism and specialises in broadcast media, teaching all aspects of writing, recording and editing techniques across TV, radio and Multimedia.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
Offers will be made initially based on your application, including predicted grades and/or grades you have already achieved. You may be given the opportunity, within your offer letter, to submit a portfolio. If you submit a strong portfolio we will make you an unconditional offer, to reflect the quality of your work and your potential.
Additional entry requirements
Portfolio: Recommended -
view portfolio details
English language requirements
IELTS: 7.0 (with at least 6.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to the Equipment Centre which stocks a huge range of cameras, audio equipment, and accessories which are available for booking by students at no cost
Various day field trips – for example, these have included Alton Towers, Shrovetide Football, the Bradford National Media Museum, and Escape rooms in the past year
Mandatory trips to media companies or other interesting organisations. Previous trips have included visiting BBC Radio Derby, the Derby Telegraph, the Nottingham Post and BBC News and Sport at Salford
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Some equipment including storage drives (about £10) and external storage drives (£50 - £100) for use with cameras
Optional costs not included in your fees
It is useful but not essential to have a smartphone (£50 - £750)
Some students choose to buy accessories for the phone such as external microphones (approx. £10 - £15) and tripods (£5 - £25)
Some students also find it useful to purchase their own laptop for use in the field but this is not required (from £150)
It is also possible that you will want to travel to cover particular news stories - as this is not required by the course, the cost is not covered in your fees
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
This course develops the broad range of knowledge and skills you need to become a multimedia professional, adept in the production of content for print, online and broadcast outlets. Our graduates have gone on to work for magazines and local newspapers; BBC, commercial and community radio; and BBC and commercial TV. Others have set up their own digital businesses or worked for online agencies.
You’ll be prepared not only for a career in journalism, online or broadcast media production but also for roles in PR, advertising, corporate communications, law and public administration or politics. The research and communication skills of a journalist are highly transferable to a huge variety of graduate level jobs.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Football Journalism BA (Hons)
Journalism BA (Hons)
Specialist Sports Journalism BA (Hons)
Chat to our students
−
Capturing the spirit of Shrovetide Football
Read how our Journalism students navigated challenging terrain, gained valuable experience and became published journalists while covering one of Derbyshire's proudest traditions.
Be inspired by our students
Be inspired by our students