Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/health-social-community-work-courses/leadership-and-management-in-health-and-social-care-pg-cert-online/

Leadership and Management in Health and Social Care Postgraduate Certificate - Health, Social and Community Work - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Health, Social and Community Work
Leadership and Management in Health and Social Care Postgraduate Certificate
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Leadership and Management in Health and Social Care
PG Cert
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 1 year
UK fee
£3,150
(2024/25)
‡
International fee
£3,150
(2024/25)
‡
Start dates
September, January, May
Location
Online
Increasingly, practitioners are being called upon to lead effective change, implementing key leadership and management skills to improve both clinical and patient delivery within their health and social care organisation.
Ideal for health and social care professionals who are looking to lead change in the provision and delivery of their health and social care setting, this course acknowledges the needs of those in current or developmental managerial roles who are seeking to develop new managerial and leadership skills to enhance their career and improve their practice. Whether you are taking the next step in your career or have a general interest in this area of study, this course will give you the ability to make a real difference in people’s lives.
This programme will equip you with an advanced understanding in applying effective leadership and management theories to your own work setting that’s equally effective and coherent alongside today’s evolving health and social care agenda.
Ideal for health and social care professionals
This Postgraduate Certificate in Leadership and Management in Health and Social Care will enable you to practice functional and theoretical key managerial skills that are dynamic, forward thinking and practical, allowing you to become strategically involved in today’s rapidly expanding health and social care sector. The course will develop your skills and knowledge of leadership and management styles whilst also considering the impact leadership and management has on inter-professional issues, policy and change within your practice.
Through studying this course online you will be able to implement new skills into your role as you learn, consolidating specific techniques and expertise that will help you to lead quality and service improvements within your health and social care practice. This course will also enable you to develop a greater understanding of your own leadership styles through critical analysis and a defined set of leadership theories.
Students will study three modules over the duration of one year, studying one module per trimester. In studying this Postgraduate Certificate you will achieve an advanced understanding of leadership and management styles and theoretical concepts that can be applied within a health and social care environment.
Achieve an advanced understanding of leadership and management
Our academic team recognise that health and social care professionals are required to have a continually developing wide range of specific and transferable skills through additional training and Continuing Professional Development (CPD). This programme offers you the flexibility and diversity that will help you develop these skills while you work and will contribute towards your continuous training and CPD.
This course is particularly beneficial for directors of nursing, clinical directors, doctors, senior nurses, senior health and social care professionals, heads of service and general health and social care workers who are seeking to gain further progression within their role. The knowledge and skills gained from studying this programme will enhance your ability to develop your career and enrich your professional practice.
What you will study
This programme is in line with today’s changing health and social care agenda and covers key aspects of leadership and management which is essential for those looking to implement a higher level
This Postgraduate Certificate programme is available to study part-time and is delivered fully online.
You can
view the study plan for this online course
.
You will need to complete the following three core 20 credit modules at level 7 for a total of 60 credits.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
Pace of study
We recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete one 20-credit module over a 10-week trimester.
There will be 1/2 virtual classrooms over the 10 week trimester and if you are unable to attend you will be able to download the session to view in your own time.
Assessment method
This course is assessed through 100% coursework with a range of methods, such as essays, research reports, presentations, group work and practical reports.
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Who will teach you
Elizabeth Eate
Programme Leader
Elizabeth Eate
As Interim Head of Discipline for Social and Community Studies, Liz Eate manages the programme and works with a diverse team of lecturers and with current students to ensure a positive, contemporary learning experience. Her specialist ...
View full staff profile
→
Explore all teaching staff on this course
Get a taste of the course content
Our Leadership and Management in Health and Social Care course taster will give you an idea of how online learning works. It includes a selection of content from a course module so you can see what some of our learning material looks like.
You will need to complete a short form to access the course taster.
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Entry requirements
You will normally need the following:
A bachelor’s degree or equivalent in an appropriate subject,
plus
Work experience in an appropriate subject area following on from your bachelor’s level qualification,
plus
Current employment in an arena which will enable the achievement of the individual module learning outcomes, eg voluntary, public, private, community, acute health and social care arenas.
If you have an International qualification, it will need to be mapped to the UK equivalent registration to ensure that you are entering the programme with at least 120 academic credits at level 6.
English language qualifications
If English is not your first language, or you have not successfully completed your highest level of qualification in English, you will need an English language qualification. For this course you will need at least one of the following:
IELTS 7.0
TOEFL: 600 (paper based), 250 (computer based) or 100 (internet based)
Pearson Test of Academic English: 51
Cambridge Advanced Certificate: Pass
London Tests of English: we accept level 4 for undergraduate courses
International GCE O Level English Language: Grade C
International GCSE English/English as a Second Language: Grade C
Find out more about our English language requirements
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£1,050
3
£3,150
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£1,080
3
£3,240
About your fees
This figure would be the total cost of this course based on the fee in the current academic year. However, please note that fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase if your course lasts longer than one year.
If you are required to undertake any associate study or additional study as a condition of your offer for the programme, please be aware that the cost for this may be in addition to the programme cost stated above.
Flexible payment plans available
Choose from
two payment plan options
:
Pay monthly and only for the modules you are studying
Pay your full course fees upfront and avoid annual increases
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Written reference supplied on headed paper from either a manager, supervisor, tutor or teacher
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Application deadlines
All of our online courses have set start dates throughout the year. We require time to review your application and get back to you with a response before your course starts. Take a look at
information regarding applying for an online course
to see full details of deadlines and term dates.
Careers
To study this Postgraduate Certificate, you must already be working within a health and social care setting on a paid or voluntary basis. This course will allow you to develop and enhance your career, as well as help you to improve the care of your patients, clients or service users.
You can take this course to stand out from other health professionals and Level 6 professionals, building on your skills and knowledge that can be implemented into your practice. This course will also count towards your CPD for the year, enabling progressive structured improvement in your role.
This Level 7 course will enable you to go onto our
MSc Integrative Health and Social Care
as well as other Master courses. Postgraduate Diplomas are also the next step up from completing this course.
In completing this course you will have the ability, skills and knowledge to help you pursue more strategic roles in the health and social care sector as well as to move ahead in a hands-on role in leadership and management within your practice.
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
Integrative Health and Social Care MSc
Leading Interprofessional Practice Education Postgraduate Certificate