Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/public-health-social-care-courses/leadership-in-health-and-social-care-msc/

Leadership in Health and Social Care MSc - Public Health and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Public Health and Social Care
Leadership in Health and Social Care MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Leadership in Health and Social Care
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: Up to 6 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, January
†
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
The MSc Leadership in Health and Social Care is suitable for a wide range of professionals and those involved in influencing the provision and delivery of a changing and expanding health and social care agenda. Increasingly, practitioners and managers are being called upon to lead change within their organisation on both clinical and strategic fronts. Study can be completed as a full-time route or in a part-time modular approach which is ideal for busy professionals.
This programme will:
Extend and progress the knowledge and skills you already have and how you may apply them to your own individual setting
Enable you to assess and support the impact your actions will have on practice
Provide an opportunity to respond to emerging career pathways allowing you to tailor your learning needs in a flexible and creative way
As a programme team we are aware that the health and social care workforce is required to have a wide range of specific and transferable skills and this programme offers you the diversity and flexibility that will help you develop these skills.
90
%
of students agree they are satisfied with the quality of their course
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
The first 60 credits can be combined into one of the prescribed PG Certificates or as standalone modules.
PG Certificate (60 credits)
Optional Module (20 Credits)
Optional Module (20 Credits)
Optional Module (20 Credits)
PG Diploma (60 Credits)
7NU508/7OT513/7NU547/7NU575
Research Module*
(core 20 credits)
7NU563/7NU540
Leadership Module**
(core 20 credits)
Optional Module (20 credits)
Masters (60 Credits)
7NU997
Independent Scholarship
(core 60 credits)
*
Core modules include:
Research Methodologies: Application to Advanced Practice (7NU508 on-campus); Research Methods (7OT513 distance Learning), Research Methods in Integrative Health (7NU547 online) or Critical Appraisal and Research Skills (7NU575 on-campus). Only one should be completed.
**
Core modules include:
Leading for Quality (7NU564 on-campus) or Leadership in Health & Social Care (7NU540 online). Only one should be completed.
Please contact the programme leader for more information about optional modules.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Within the programme there is a strong interprofessional ethos to teaching and learning. Activities that facilitate this include group work, use of discussion boards, peer assessment and group presentations. Lecturers from a range of professional backgrounds support this transition and integration enabling you to take a holistic view of the subject area.
There are a large number of modules to choose from, so you can tailor the course to suit your learning needs and your professional career aspirations. You can study specific awards or take stand-alone modules as part of your professional development. Many of the modules are available online or through distance learning, so you can study at a time and place to suit you.
How you're assessed
There are a range of assessment methods used, including:
Assignments
Case studies
Reports and essays
Dissertation
Oral assessment including viva voce and presentations
Practical assessment of clinical skills including OSCE’s
Written examinations
These depend on the modules chosen.
Entry requirements
2:2 Undergraduate Degree classification or above
Minimum of 40 level 6 academic credits plus relevant Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL) (United Kingdom applications only). Recognition of prior experiential learning applications are not available for overseas students due to difficulties in validating previous experience.
Applicants who wish to apply for Advanced Standing and /or block credit will be assessed according to the University’s Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) Regulatory Framework. The flexible approach to RPL ensures students may enter at all levels.
GCSE grade C/4 or above in English language or certificated equivalences, regardless of previous educational qualifications.
For applicants for whom English is not a first language, the minimum English language qualifications acceptable are:
International English Language Testing System (IELTS) is a minimum of 6.5 overall and no lower than 6.0 in any one element
or
accepted equivalent.
If applicants are using a WAEC qualification as certified evidence this must be at a minimum of C4 for English language.
For Home and UK professionally registered applicants there are certain option modules which have additional UK regulatory body requirements which may include minimum levels of work experience or Disclosure and Barring Scheme checks. This programme does not contain clinical placements or result in a professional nursing or social work qualification.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
The aim of this programme is to support lifelong learning and career development beyond the completion of the course. Employability within this programme is underpinned by both the University's Learning and Teaching Strategy, of which employability is a key pillar, and the University of Derby Graduate Attribute Framework. Students on the programme have access to the University's Careers and Employability Service which offers a diverse range of services including personal advice, CV building, volunteering, and looking for and applying for jobs. Events are held throughout the programme to provide opportunities for students to engage with the careers service during their time with us.
Professionals accessing this programme will work innovatively as part of a wider health and social care team and across traditional professional boundaries due to the shared teaching and learning approaches. In additional to employability skills, students will develop emotional intelligence and resilience throughout their studies. They will become resourceful and seek solutions to their problems using their own initiative: skills which will be in high demand from future employers. They will be provided with information management and processing skills to be able to seek, understand, process and apply information to their context.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
† Additional information about your studies
January 2024 intake is not open to International students.
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.