Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/leading-clinical-practice/

Leading Clinical Practice - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Leading Clinical Practice
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Leading Clinical Practice
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Module details
Module code
7NU553
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
September, January
Duration
5 months
Location
St Helena, Chesterfield
Module description
About this module
The aim is to bring together essential principles of leadership, management and expert practice to inform the delivery of high quality services.
Applying the values of collective and interactional leadership, accountability for care quality will be explored. You will examine and adapt to the varied dimensions of their leadership roles such as educator, coach and advocate of services to best meet the needs of patients.
It embeds leadership for enhancing quality standards, professionalism, communication and collaborative working.
Who is this course for
All health and social care professionals: nursing; physiotherapists; podiatrists; paramedic, occupational therapy, pharmacists, ultrasonography.
Course team
Jill Gould; Senior Lecturer; District Nurse; Module leader
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Critically consider aspects of their leadership role within the context of best practice and supporting colleagues in contemporary health and social care settings.
Appraise and critically analyse leadership and management principles in the provision, measurement and improvement of collaborative, patient-centred quality care.
Critically evaluate the knowledge, skills and competencies related to the leadership dimensions of relevance to their area of professional practice.
Entry requirements
To undertake this module at Level 7, you must:
Demonstrate the ability to study at academic level 7 (post-graduate level)
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
E:
lbr@derby.ac.uk
T:
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.