Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/business-courses/leadership-and-management-mres/

Leadership and Management MRes - Business - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Business
Leadership and Management MRes
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Leadership and Management
MRes
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 Year,  Part-time: Up to 2 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start dates
July, March, October
Location
Derby Campus
The contemporary business landscape demands leaders and professionals who possess a deep understanding of complex management challenges and the ability to develop evidence-based solutions. With a focus on research and knowledge, and designed with professionals in mind, our MRes Leadership and Management programme allows you to specialise with a range of pathways:
Leadership and Management
Human Resource Management
International Relations
Project Management
Sustainable Strategic Development
The programme will provide you with theoretical knowledge and practical research skills. You’ll study a range of research modules as well as a specialist dissertation, allowing you to customise your academic journey.
A solid basis in research
Managers of the future will need to be able to adapt and constantly learn through research and knowledge exchange. Our MRes Leadership and Management course offers advanced training in research methodologies, critical thinking, and analytical skills, which are highly valued in managerial positions. You’d also be well placed to move into doctoral study on a PhD or DBA to continue your research journey.
Top reasons to study an MRes degree at Derby Business School
The Master of Research in Leadership and Management is a one-year full-time (or two-year part-time) Master's degree designed to build your knowledge of specialist areas of business and management, and to develop the research skills essential for doctoral research. Many students who complete an MRes go on to apply for a PhD or DBA.
It provides an invaluable background for PhD or DBA research, focusing on the key skills you need to develop an academic research proposal and appropriate research design in your specialist subject area.
It will support you in developing a robust grounding in research methods for your future studies, research and career.
Our academic staff are leaders in their fields having published in some of the top national and international journals.
You will have opportunities to make the most of the wider University of Derby offering – you might even have the opportunity for cross-disciplinary supervision, depending on your research focus.
Our links with the business community are strong. Many of our academics also engage in consultancy and University of Derby partners with a wide range of companies and organisations.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
The MRes involves a substantial research project preceded by modules in research methodology and methods, advanced research methods and Personal Development for research.
Research Philosophy and Methods (20 credits)*
This module introduces the main theoretical approaches to understanding the social world, addressing questions such as ‘what is knowledge’ and ‘how can we know what we know
’.
It provides a grounding in the ways research is constructed from different conceptual foundations and the implications that these have for practical issues, such as how to collect and analyse data.
Advanced Research Methods (20 credits)*
Building on the broad foundation of the introductory module (Research Methodology and Methods), you will explore and develop specialised research, data collection and analytical techniques in more depth. You will select a minimum of eight masterclasses from a wide-ranging menu and these will be agreed with your academic supervisor to ensure they provide a solid preparation for your independent research project.
Several masterclasses count as double and will always be offered:
Introduction to Survey Research
Advanced Statistical Analysis
Computer-Aided Qualitative Analysis
Using SPSS
Using Grounded Theory.
A further list of at least ten single-session masterclasses will be offered each academic year. These offer you the opportunity to work in small, interdisciplinary groups, learning alongside and from the academic researchers who will go on to supervise your independent research project. They will explain the questions, methods, and theories that have motivated their own research in sessions which allow you to shape your own research ideas. This engagement with active researchers is an important part of the course, paving the way for greater collaboration between staff and students and promoting the co-production of research.
Professional Development for Researchers (20 credits)*
You will develop professional skills which are invaluable for your future research endeavours. Delivered through four masterclasses, this module embraces crucial issues such as:
the communication and dissemination of research findings
research management including project planning and risk appraisal
finance
funding and resources including the preparation of a simulated funding proposal
different approaches to engagement and impact.
Work-based Research module (40 Credits)*
You'll undertake a work-based research project either at your own place of work, through a work placement with one of the University's research clusters, or with an external organisation. The topic of the project will be linked to your chosen award title.
Independent research project (80 credits)
You will complete a substantial independent research programme consisting of a literature review and original research. This will culminate in a 20,000-word thesis and a critical reflection on the research process. You will also present your findings at an annual conference.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
This course offers a clear progression to independent learning, combining both critical engagement and hands-on real-world learning through your research project.
You begin with more traditional and structured modules where you will be introduced to research methodology and subject-specific content. You will then advance to more student-focused research masterclass modules with smaller cohorts, followed by the supervised independent research project.
Modules marked with an asterisk may be delivered either through on campus block teaching or live online synchronous teaching. In each cohort you will study at least one of these modules on campus, though the exact module may vary from cohort to cohort. Information on the module(s) to be studied on campus and those delivered online will be clear at the point of application.
The Independent Research Project will be delivered online through individual and/or group supervision.
The teaching approach will vary between interactive lectures, seminars, workshops, master classes and hands-on activities (e.g. learning of various software such as NVivo, SPSS, etc.). This will be delivered through block teaching on campus of one module (20/40 credits only) or more and these module(s) will vary per cohort. The remaining modules will be delivered through live online synchronous teaching. The independent study module (80 credits) will be delivered online through individual and/or group supervision. The learning will be supported by further online asynchronous interventions. Some examples would include links to videos to support statistical analysis for the independent study or links to Develop@Derby and Linkedin learning to further support the learner. You will be provided with all necessary learning materials via Blackboard Ultra. You will also be encouraged to engage through discussion forums. Continuous formative assessment and feedback mechanisms ensure you stay on track and effectively engage with the material.
There is a strong emphasis on skills development throughout the programme. You will not only build research, problem-solving, critical reflection and analytical skills but also develop broader transferable abilities in areas such as:
communication
project management
risk assessment
financial planning.
Entry requirements
This is a challenging programme design and is built to service a busy working manager/leader in industry. The course has been created to develop high-level research skills to enhance practice of research and insight to use in a professional context and where it can inspire further academic development.
To apply for this course, you will need:
A good honours degree, 2:1 or above (or its international equivalent) in a related discipline
To currently be in employment
Where English is not the first language, applicants will need to provide the minimum English qualification IELTS 6.5 (with no less than 5.5 in each component) or a University of Derby approved equivalent. IELTS may not be needed where a degree has been obtained in the UK or another English-speaking country. English speaking professional settings may be considered.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
This course is a closed cohort block delivery programme and is currently unavailable for general admission.
Careers
The MRes leadership and Management can lead to further research such as a PhD or DBA.
Graduates can pursue careers in management, including local and national government, business, and industry. Possible professions include management consultant, analyst or research project manager in addition to leadership positions in a corporate setting.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Social Sciences and Humanities MRes