Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/operationsdepartmental-manager-apprenticeship-standard-level-5/

Operations/Departmental Manager Apprenticeship Standard (Level 5) - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Operations/Departmental Manager Apprenticeship Standard (Level 5)
Apply now
Apply now
Apprenticeship Course
Level 5 Diploma for Operational Leaders and Managers
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Benefits
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Next course date
September, January, and Easter start dates are available.
Duration
Minimum of 2.5 years
Delivery
Blended learning
Location
Buxton & Leek College (Buxton/Leek Campus)
Lecture/workshop days - dates/times
We are flexible in terms of study patterns to fit around the workplace or seasonal demand.
Course description
The level five diploma is designed for Operational or Departmental Leaders and Managers who manage teams and/or projects and are responsible for achieving operational or departmental goals and objectives as part of their organisation’s strategy.
An operations or departmental manager is responsible for providing input to strategic planning, creating and delivering operational plans, managing projects, leading and managing teams, managing change, financial and resource management, talent management, and supporting people through coaching and mentoring.
It is applicable to professional managers in all sectors—the private, public, or third sector—and all sizes of organisations.
Studying for the level five diploma means apprentices benefit from excellent teaching and have access to exceptional facilities. We have designed the apprenticeship around off-the-job training, meaning the knowledge, skills, and behaviours gained can be applied back into the workplace, creating an ‘impact’.
This apprenticeship can also be tailored to specific industry sectors by demand.
Who is this course for?
The course is designed for those who manage teams and/or projects and are responsible for achieving operational or departmental goals and objectives as part of their organisation’s strategy.
Structure, certificates and assessment
The apprenticeship runs over a maximum of 24-30 months. Upon completion of the programme, the University will award a Level 5 ILM Diploma. Please see a breakdown of the typical modules that form the Apprenticeship:
Level 5:
Induction Module - Reflection Practice
Coaching and Mentoring for Performance
Innovative Operations Management
Business Finance
Applied Project Management
On completing the apprenticeship, each apprentice will go through an end-point assessment to achieve the apprenticeship.
Off-the-Job training
We offer a blended approach to Off the Job training, tailoring the learning between face-to-face and online. An e-portfolio enables employers to track an apprentice’s progress, this captures all of the knowledge, skills and behaviours that they gain, in order to complete the apprenticeship.
Request more information about our apprenticeship programmes
Want to talk to a member of the team about our apprenticeship programmes? Make an enquiry and a member of our team will get in contact with to provide you with more information about our apprenticeships, and how our programmes can up-skill your workforce.
Request more information about apprenticeships
Request more information about apprenticeships
Benefits
Offers a Level 5 ILM Diploma – (Cost of Diploma covered via ESFA/Levy – Employer must pay only for the certificate, currently circa £225 per learner)
Apprentices will study through work based learning, enabling them to apply the off the job training, back into the work place
The apprenticeship develops the critical skills demanded by employers:
Operational management, project management and finance skills - the ability to organise, plan and manage resources
Interpersonal excellence – Leading and managing people, building relationships and communication
Personal effectiveness, managing self – self-awareness, management of self and decision making.
On completion, apprentices can register as full members with the Chartered Management Institute and/or the Institute of Leadership & Management, and those with 3 years of management experience can apply for Chartered Manager status.
Entry requirements
We welcome and encourage applications from apprentices of all ages, as long as they can be considered adequately prepared to succeed on the programme. If the apprentice has few or no formal qualifications, they may be able to gain entry to the apprenticeship if they have the required communication and learning skills as well as the knowledge, experience and motivation to succeed. All apprentices will be asked to provide evidence of previous qualifications, to confirm their ability to undertake the apprenticeship.
Apprentices without level 2 English and Maths will need to achieve this level before taking the end-point assessment. We can work with employers and candidates to determine the most appropriate route to obtaining the required criteria before the course starts.
To apply for this apprenticeship, you must currently be in paid employment for at least 30 hours per week. The employer would cover the costs of the apprenticeship through their levy or access to non-levy funding.
Fees and funding
Employers:
Cost of the apprenticeship will normally be in line with the funding band £9,000, but individual agreements will be considered depending on student numbers and involvement of employers.
Apprentices:
Fees will be paid by your employer with government-funded support or through the apprenticeship levy. The additional ILM Diploma cost is covered via the Levy/ESFA/Co-funding as per the apprenticeship rules, however, the employer must pay the cost of the certification (currently circa £225 per learner)
How to apply
Applications to this apprenticeship will need to be made through the employer. Following this the course application will need the provider application form which will need completing -
How to Apply | Online Application | Buxton & Leek College
However, you can find out more from us - please see below for contact information.
Who will teach you
Programme leader
Matteo Frau
Contact us
Apprenticeship Hub
(Buxton & Leek)
Email:
feapprenticeships@blc.ac.uk
Phone:
0800 074 0099
Other courses you might like
Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship