Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/level-6-teacher-apprenticeship/

Level 6 Postgraduate Teacher with QTS Apprenticeship - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Level 6 Postgraduate Teacher with QTS Apprenticeship
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Apprenticeship Course
Level 6 Postgraduate Teacher Apprenticeship (with QTS)
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
For an employment-based route into teaching, look no further than a Level 6 Postgraduate Teacher Apprenticeship (with QTS) at the University of Derby.
Studying for this apprenticeship provides access to experienced teaching, exceptional facilities and real-life learning designed to promote capability and competence ready for a career in education.
This apprenticeship focuses on personal and professional development, embedding key approaches to learning, behaviour, and reflection alongside critical issues such as developing professional practice in the classroom, decision-making and subject specialist/age phase knowledge.
Apprentices will:
Benefit from on-the-job practical training and degree-level academic learning, including a significant blended element
Learn with university-led training sessions with dedicated tutors
Receive a recommendation for the award of Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) on a course ranked as ‘outstanding’ by Ofsted - the highest possible accolade
Join a recently revalidated programme where the content ensures your training is up to date and meets Ofsted standards
Choose a route that matches your career aspirations - choose Early Years (3-7), Primary (5-11) or Special Educational
Needs and Disability (SEND) which encompasses either Early Years (3-7) or Primary (5-11) or Secondary (11-19)
As part of the course, you will undertake three assessed teaching placements, two in your employing school and one in an alternative school and different key stages to broaden your experience. You will be supported throughout by expert colleagues including trained school mentors, subject specialists and link tutors.
You will also spend time at the University to develop your understanding of what it takes to become a great teacher.
At a time when rapid policy shifts are transforming the educational landscape, we will help you to meet the challenge of change in the modern classroom. Ours is an intellectually stimulating course which will keep you up to date with all the latest developments, including the Core Content Framework.
Ofsted
rating of 'Outstanding' for Primary, Secondary and Post-14 Further Education and Skills
Ofsted 2023/24
Who is this course for?
Our apprenticeship programme is suitable for individuals that are looking for an employment-based route into teaching. Ideally, you will have had experience in the classroom or a relevant educational setting.
What will you study
You'll study modules such as:
Applied Professional Practice and Pedagogy 1 – focusing on your professional identity and accountability
Applied Professional Practice and Pedagogy 2 – looking at understanding learners, raising aspirations
Applied Professional Practice and Pedagogy 3 – with a lens on your subject or age phase
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You will be recruited as an apprentice and based mainly in your employing school. You will also undertake a 6-week alternative setting placement. The placements and on-the-job learning will provide you with challenging and exciting experiences.
You'll also spend time at the University or attending workshops remotely, with access to our excellent facilities within the University and school-based expert colleagues, in order to develop your growing understanding of what it takes to become a great teacher.
How you're assessed
All assessments relate to your school placements; you will complete three assessed teaching placements, two in your main school and one in a second school, which will provide you with the challenging and exciting experience you need. You'll also have the opportunity to reflect on and discuss your developing subject knowledge, as well as developing your skills in research-informed practice. The assessments are varied in nature, from a critical incident report to a learner-focused case study and a poster presentation. You will also be required to compile an e-portfolio evidencing your progress throughout the apprenticeship.
FAQs
If you have any questions, please see our
FAQs page
or feel free to get in touch.
What you will study
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Entry requirements
A 2.2 degree or above
Maths GCSE at grade C/4 or above
English GCSE at grade C/4 or above
Science GCSE at grade C/4 or above (if primary)
Basic and Key Skills Builder (BKSB) test - to be completed upon application
An enhanced DBS and Fitness to Teach check
Fees and funding
Employers:
The cost of the apprenticeship will normally be in line with the funding band £9,000, but individual agreements will be considered depending on student numbers and the involvement of employers.
Apprentices:
Fees will be paid by your employer with government funded support or through the apprenticeship levy.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Applications to this apprenticeship will need to be made through the employer.
However, you can find out more from us - please see below for contact information.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Apprenticeship Hub
apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 593092
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discovering her love for teaching with the help of our Teacher Apprenticeship
Samantha had been a Teaching Assistant for twenty years, but after teaching a class of fourteen- to nineteen-year-olds with profound and multiple learning difficulties, Samantha was introduced to a completely different side to teaching, sparking the start of a new career path.
Find out more about Samantha's apprenticeship journey
Find out more about Samantha's apprenticeship journey