Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/-level-3-prosthetic-and-orthotic-technician-apprenticeship/

Level 3 Prosthetic and Orthotic Technician Apprenticeship - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Level 3 Prosthetic and Orthotic Technician Apprenticeship
Apply now
Apply now
Apprenticeship Course
Level 3 Prosthetic/​Orthotic Technician Apprenticeship
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Course code
B900
Next course date
September
Duration
18 months
Delivery
Blended learning
Course description
Prosthetic/Orthotic technicians are vital members of the prosthetic/orthotic team who use evidence- based practice to provide clinical support, technical design and fabrication of prosthetic and/or orthotic devices.
The programme has been developed to reflect key policies shaping the Prosthetic/Orthotic profession, the NHS, Health and Social Care sectors today with the skills and attributes needed within the workforce to deliver care with compassion and skill to ensure the best outcomes for patients and service users. The programme has been developed through close consultation and collaboration with Health Education England (HEE), Skills for Health, members of the Prosthetic and Orthotic industry; both private companies and the NHS and Prosthetic/Orthotic service users.
This programme is mapped directly to the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education standards and will:
Provide opportunities for the learner to develop a sound base of knowledge of Prosthetic/Orthotic manufacture
Provide specialist knowledge for working in a Prosthetic/Orthotic environment
Provide pathway specific work-based learning and application of practice
Provide vocational work-based learning integrated with academic rigour
Meet employer's workforce needs · Provide opportunities for personal and professional development
Prosthetics/Orthotics Webinar
Watch our on-demand webinar to find out more about our Prosthetics/Orthotics apprenticeship programmes. Hear from the programme leader about our programmes.
Watch the Prosthetics/Orthotics on-demand webinar
Watch the Prosthetics/Orthotics on-demand webinar
Structure, certificates and assessment
This apprenticeship usually runs over 18 months. You will be completing on-the-job learning and uploading evidence of this to an e-portfolio, at the same time as studying for level 3 certificate.
This academic study will make up 20% of the course and is delivered through 'blended learning' - a combination of face-to-face and online teaching. Face-to-face sessions will be in blocks and online learning can include group webinars, independent activities or reading between the block study sessions.
Request more information about our apprenticeship programmes
Want to talk to a member of the team about our apprenticeship programmes? Make an enquiry and a member of our team will get in contact with to provide you with more information about our apprenticeships, and how our programmes can up-skill your workforce.
Request more information about apprenticeships
Request more information about apprenticeships
Entry requirements
5 GSCE’s (or equivalent) at grades A-C or 4-9, to include Mathematics and English
Apprentice and non-apprentice applicants required to have English and Maths L2 or for those with an education, health & care plan or a legacy statement, the English & maths minimum requirement is Entry Level 3
Evidence of recent study
Current DBS
Ability to meet the occupational health requirements of the programme
If applying as a candidate for whom English is a second language the applicant should hold an overall IELTS score of at least 7.0 with no element below 6.5
Apprentice/Learner must be employed within a Prosthetic or Orthotic Department and must have the support of their manager that they will be able to complete programme/apprenticeship
Fees and funding
Fees will be paid by the employer if you are studying via an apprenticeship.
More information for employers
Cost of the apprenticeship will be in line with the funding band £6,000.
How to apply
You will need to apply through your employer. However, you can find out more from us - please see below for contact information.
Contact us
Apprenticeship Hub
Email:
apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk
Phone:
01332 593092
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Other courses you might like
Prosthetics and Orthotics Degree Apprenticeship