Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/law-courses/llb-criminology/

LLB (Hons) with Criminology - Law - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Law
LLB (Hons) with Criminology
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
LLB (Hons) with Criminology
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
M1M2
Start date
September
Location
One Friar Gate Square, Derby Campus
We equip you with all the key skills required to succeed in the legal sector – including drafting, advocacy, interviewing and negotiation. In addition to these core legal skills we will be engaging with skills that relate to entrepreneurship, creative and problem solving skills as well as developing your business acumen.
Our tuition reaches the highest professional standards: this is a qualifying law degree, meeting criteria set by the
Bar Standards Board
and
Solicitors Regulation Authority
, which puts you on the path to a career as a solicitor or barrister.
You’ll go behind the headlines to explore how crime can be measured and reduced as well as the challenges of convicting serious offenders.
There are exciting opportunities for you to benefit from work internships and professional mentoring.
An extensive programme of fieldtrips are included in your course fee. In previous years students have visited London, The Hague and Dublin.
Through our new
Student Legal Advice Centre
, you can gain rewarding practical experience by supporting the wider community and helping people who might otherwise find it hard to access justice support and advice.
Our enthusiastic teaching team includes experienced practitioners in law and criminology as well as researchers who have an international profile.
For those interested in becoming a solicitor, the route to qualification is
changing
. At Derby Law School we are working hard to ensure that the necessary changes are made to our undergraduate and postgraduate courses to provide our students with maximum opportunity and flexibility to further their legal career.
Law - your questions answered
In the below video, Head of Derby Law School, Sue Jennings, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Law at the University of Derby.
View Law - your questions answered! video transcript
By studying our LLB (Hons) with Criminology you’ll gain a comprehensive all-round undergraduate legal education, alongside a thorough grounding in criminology and the challenges facing criminal justice professionals today.
You'll cover every aspect of legal services and engage with all the core professional skills, bringing what you read in the textbooks to life through genuine practical experience. At the same time, you’ll debate major ideas about retribution, rehabilitation and punishment, exploring why people commit crime, why laws are created and broken, the effectiveness of sentencing and punishment, and the impact of crime on victims, communities and wider society.
Flexibility and choice are a cornerstone of this course: our broad selection of optional modules means that you can specialise in areas as diverse as company law, commercial and consumer law, family law, international human rights, child protection, murder, psychopathy, cybercrime and miscarriages of justice.
Professional Recognition
The Derby LLB (Hons) with Criminology meets stringent criteria set by the
Bar Standards Board
and
Solicitors Regulation Authority
and covers all the foundations of legal knowledge. As a ‘qualifying law degree’, it offers exemptions from the academic stage of study if you want to progress to become a barrister or solicitor.
Hands-on learning
Derby Law School has an ethos of ‘learning by doing’ to build your employability skills and ensure you’re work-ready on graduation. We offer different variations of real-world learning to take legal education out of the abstract and into reality – from mooting competitions and mock trials to drafting contracts and bail applications.
Work internships enable you to learn more about the legal sector. Through the Law School’s excellent relationship with the local legal profession, some of our students in previous years have had the opportunity to undertake work internships with local Government, local charities, Citizens Advice Bureau, the NHS legal department and the University of Derby Legal Department. The Law School actively supports students in identifying work internships where possible.
A vibrant programme of ‘paid for’ study visits will give you insights into the profession, including fieldtrips to local courts. Previous students have also toured London, including the Supreme Court and the Houses of Parliament and as well as visited The Hague, the legal capital of the world, where you can see the international courts in action. Students have also had the opportunity to visit Dublin to explore a different legal system.
Links with the profession
Contributions from the wider legal community, including regular careers talks and workshops, are central to this course. Through our professional mentoring scheme, practitioners from the legal field will share their perspectives with you. All students on the course are eligible to apply for this scheme. Previous mentors have included serving judges, solicitors and barristers. In some cases this has led to internships, part-time paralegal work and even permanent jobs for our students.
A highlight of our academic calendar is a prestigious black-tie law dinner where you can network with members of the local judiciary and legal profession. In addition, the Derby Junior Lawyers group invites our students to networking events and social opportunities. You can also join our active student Law Society.
Student Legal Advice Centre and Pro Bono work
Our
Student Legal Advice Centre
enables you to build your skills in clinical legal practice by offering free advice and assistance to members of the public. Volunteering in the Centre provides you the opportunity to develop transferrable skills that will assist you in gaining the skills required once you graduate – and not limited to a career as a solicitor.
Through the Centre, you’ll work under the close supervision of a qualified solicitor to help members of the community in a range of legal areas. The Centre offers assistance in the following areas:
Family law
Criminal injuries compensation authority claims
Immigration family reunion (in partnership with British Red Cross and Paragon Law)
The Centre also offers support to Litigants in Person in Family Law matters at the Family Court at Derby. If you are representing yourself in a Family Law matter, a student volunteer can attend Court with you to support you, take notes and following the hearing discuss the outcome of the hearing with you. In Autumn 2022, a Business Clinic and Legal Triage Clinic (exclusively for University of Derby students) will also be launched.
Depending upon which clinic you volunteer in within the Centre, you will have the opportunity to meet with clients, take instructions, carry out research and advise accordingly.
The Centre also has a Policy Clinic and Justice Project. The Justice Project promotes the teaching of law to all members of the community, including school children, by informing them of their legal rights and responsibilities. When volunteering in the Policy Clinic, you will have the opportunity to carry out research for non-government organisations.
The Centre was recently shortlisted for Best Contribution by a Law School at the LawWorks and Attorney General Student Pro Bono Awards 2022, and was highly commended at the LawWorks Pro Bono Awards 2021 for Best contribution in relation to the Centre’s Immigration Family Reunion Clinic.
Expert teaching
Our teaching team includes barristers, solicitors, criminal psychologists, sociologists and experienced police officers. Several are still actively engaged with practice, which helps you keep up to date with contemporary issues in justice. Our teaching is also enriched by research covering some of the most pressing issues confronting society today, from slavery to digital privacy.
The LLB (Hons) with Criminology is supported by visiting professors and guest lecturers who are leading authorities in their fields, including a deputy district judge and a coroner. Our celebrated Public Lecture Series also brings influential figures to the University to shed new light on the legal system.
Extra qualifications
If you have a particular interest in youth justice, the LLB (Hons) with Criminology gives you the chance to achieve an additional professional qualification – the Youth Justice in Effective Practice Certificate (YJEPC) – alongside your degree studies.
The YJEPC is the most widely held qualification in youth justice: since it was launched in 2012, it has been adopted by over half of the Youth Offending Teams countrywide to improve the skills of their staff. Bringing together current theory, practice and evidence, it will not only boost your employability but also help you to make more effective judgements in your future career.
The opportunity to gain the YJEPC is available if you take two specific modules – Working with Young Offenders and Youth Justice.
Facilities
Law students are based on the Derby Campus at
One Friar Gate Square
. It includes a mock court room, replica custody suite and social learning hubs where you can develop your skills and familiarise yourself with the type of environments you’ll encounter in real-life legal situations.
Law and Criminology graduate Jeanette's career success
Jeanette is now a self-employed Barrister and practices predominantly in Criminal Law, along with some private family work. She complements her legal practice with running her own TV consultancy company, TV Crime Consulting, where she advises and produces TV shows involving crime or court.
Read Jeanette's story
Read Jeanette's story
Study overseas
Along with our international fieldtrips, we offer you the opportunity to spend time studying abroad as part of the LLB (Hons) with Criminology. We have an extensive network of global associates, including strong partnerships with universities in Pisa, Naples, Paris, The Hague and Brno in the Czech Republic. These not only ensure our curriculum is truly international but also paves the way for exchange opportunities.
Time spent abroad is an excellent way to improve your academic experience and enhance your job prospects while enjoying a different culture.
The Gateway to Your Legal Career
Our modern, iconic building offers state-of-the-art facilities like a replica Crown Court and Custody Suite. Just a short walk from the city centre, One Friar Gate Square is designed to elevate your academic journey.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
The LLB with Criminology offers a variety of methods of learning and teaching. Engaging in real or simulated legal practice, you will practise a range of key skills at every stage of the course, including:
case preparation
mooting
interviewing
negotiation
Our focus on problem-based learning will also ensure you achieve a wide-ranging understanding of criminal and community justice systems.  In addition, there is the chance to undertake problem-based research or to specialise through original academic enquiry. We have a Student Research Forum and there are opportunities for you to submit articles to the Derby Law School Journal and student blog.
Through our peer assisted mentoring scheme, students from later years of the course also give helpful guidance and support to first year students.
Showcasing your skills
We give you ample scope to take part in internal and external skills competitions which will raise your profile within the legal profession. ‘Mooting’ – where you present a legal issue against an opposing counsel in a mock court case – forms part of certain LLB modules and you can develop your expertise further through regional and national competitions representing Derby Law School. We have an excellent record of success in these challenges.
In your third year, our annual Legal Skills Triathlon, run in partnership with Derby & District Law Society, will test your advocacy, interview and negotiation skills. You will compete in teams with newly qualified lawyers and will be judged by a professional panel. Some of our students have secured jobs as a direct result of this experience.
In a new venture, we help run a schools’ debating competition in partnership with Derby & District Law Society and Enterprise for Education where you can mentor local secondary school pupils providing them with key debating skills.
How you are assessed
Assessments enable you to develop and demonstrate your legal knowledge and skills effectively. They may include:
group work
oral presentations
written coursework
examinations
Who you’ll meet
Our teaching team is made up of experts with broad-ranging experience and diverse research interests. It includes:
Joel Klaff
Christie Eaton
George Ellison
Sue Jennings
Dr Tim Marangon
Larry Mead
Michala Meiselles
Kaye Howells
Rebekah Marangon
Virna Simoncelli-Allan
Dr Muin Boase
Dr Jennifer Gant
Associate Professor Chrispas Nyombi
Professor Gerhard Kemp
Professor Flora Huang
Dr Eghose Ekhator
Dr Taiwo Oriola
You will also meet academics from the department of Criminology who teach on the final year optional modules.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Joel Klaff
Programme Leader
Joel Klaff
Joel is currently Assistant Head of Law and Programme Leader for the Undergraduate LL.B Law Programmes. His areas of interest include Commercial Law, International Trade and International Economic Law. He has a further interest in ensu...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
A study trip will be offered if applicable and appropriate
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Purchasing formal business attire for mooting assessments (costs can vary between £75 - £300 depending on source of purchase)
Printing of trial bundles for mooting assessment - around 80 pages (approx. cost £4).
Optional costs not included in your fees
Membership of the Students Union Law Society
For trips, the costs of travel to and from the destination are covered but students are responsible for travel costs for non mandatory activities whilst away and for food and drinks
Students will be invited to black tie events which will require the wearing of formal attire (£50-£100 depending on source of purchase)
Trip to London in first year (organised by Law Society) - you could visit places such as Inns of Court and Royal Courts of Justice (approx. cost £50).
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
By the time you graduate, you will have a clear idea of the value of your LLB (Hons) with Criminology degree and the many different career directions it opens up – and you will be equipped to excel in whatever path you choose. Our graduates could go on to take up roles in private practice, the Crown Prosecution Service, the courts, law centres, the police, probation and prison services, local and national government, and youth offending teams.
Completion of the LLB represents the end of the academic stage of your training. To become a solicitor or barrister, you must then continue to complete the vocational stage of your training.
If you wish to become a solicitor, you will need to complete our
LLM Legal Practice Course (LPC)
, or Solicitors Qualifying Examination (SQE). Our graduates are highly sought after by solicitors’ firms because of their practical skills underpinned by academic rigour. At Derby, we offer the LLM LPC, which equips you with both a masters qualification and the LPC. We are currently developing an SQE provision.
If you wish to become a barrister, you must take a one-year full-time or two-year part-time Bar Professional Training Course (BPTC). Our students are particularly successful at winning substantial scholarships for the BPTC, which is testimony to the calibre of teaching we offer.
Even if you do not want to become a legal practitioner, you will find that the LLB with Criminology is a valuable qualification and will act as a stepping stone to careers in broader areas. Legal skills will ensure you can make a strategic contribution in many professions including banking, commerce, industry, HR, politics, government, publishing and education. They will also prove helpful if you want to launch your own business.
Further study
If you would like to take your studies to postgraduate level, the
Derby LLM
is a masters degree offering maximum flexibility, choice and opportunity. If you wish to become to a solicitor, you will need to complete our
LLM LPC
.
If you would prefer to pursue your Criminology studies at masters level, we also run acclaimed MSc qualifications in subjects such as
Criminal Justice and Criminology
,
Forensic and Criminal Psychology
, and
Criminal Investigation
. These will expand your knowledge into more specialist areas and help accelerate your progress to senior and leadership roles.
As a graduate of the University of Derby, you may benefit from an
alumni discount
on your postgraduate course fees if you continue to study with us.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
LLB (Hons)
Criminology BSc (Hons)
International Relations and Diplomacy (with optional year in Hague) BA (Hons)
Chat to our students
−