Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/business-courses/management-msc/

Management MSc - Business - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Business
Management MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Management
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, January
The highlights
Our MSc Management is a management and leadership masters for graduates from both business and non-business backgrounds
You will gain a broad range of management skills, in areas such as strategic thinking, HR, finance, risk management and supply chains
You will follow a new curriculum that's been developed post-Brexit and post-Covid and addresses the challenges of managing in the 2020s and beyond
We'll push you out of your comfort zone, expecting you to come up with solutions to challenging problems. Through this, you will build resilience and confidence
Towards the end of the programme, you will put into practice everything you've learnt, by undertaking in-depth research for a business and recommending improvements
97
%
of students agree they are satisfied with the quality of their course - MSc Management
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2024
Set your sights on management
If your sights are set on managerial roles this is the Masters for you. It will give you a good, high-level grounding in all areas of management and improve your employability and confidence. We focus on equipping you with the skills to deal with the business environment of the 2020s: a decade which has so far been characterised by uncertainty, turbulence and change.
This MSc Management assumes you have no prior knowledge of business or management, so we'll begin with some foundational modules that will bring you up to speed. These will develop your knowledge of key management theories and give you the skills to think and act more strategically. We will then look more specifically at the management of people, supply chains, finance, and risk, in subsequent modules.
Towards the end of the programme, you will bring all your newly-acquired knowledge and skills together to conduct an in-depth research project for a business. This will give you valuable experience and also the confidence to know that you can apply your learning to real situations.
High-profile partnerships
Throughout the MSc Management, you will meet industry experts from our thriving network of professionals and business leaders. We collaborate directly with prestigious names such as:
Lloyds Bank Corporate
Bank of England Midlands Office
HSBC Nottingham
Eversheds
Price Waterhouse Cooper
PKF Cooper Parry
Smiths of Derby
GI Insight, Leicester
Kitchencraft
Many of these companies contribute to our MSc programme with thought-provoking guest lectures.
You will also gain fresh insights through company visits. In the past, business and management students have experienced behind-the-scenes tours of:
Derby Arena
Crown Derby
High performance engineering companies
You can also extend your contacts through networking — for instance, at Institute of Directors workshops, company taster days and events held by our University’s own Network of Entrepreneurs.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You'll study modules such as:
Contemporary Management and Leadership Thinking and Application
Strategic and Financial Performance Management
Leading, Managing and Developing People
The Changing Business Environment and Leading Strategically
Risk Management in a Global Context
Global Supply Chain Management and Logistics
Corporate Placement Project
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
This masters will blend online and face-to-face teaching and learning, including lectures, seminars, tutorials, group work and independent research. You will analyse case studies, hear from insightful guest speakers, and go on business trips.
The assessments will focus on developing your practical communication skills, so will include presentations, reports, data collection and consultancy.
Who will teach you
Dr Naznin Tabassum
Programme Leader
Dr Naznin Tabassum
Naznin is a Senior Lecturer in Strategy and Leadership at the University of Derby.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
An undergraduate degree with a minimum 2:2 classification or its international equivalent.
If English is not your first language, you will also need IELTS 6.5 with 6.0 in each skills area.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to Financial Markets Lab for financial databases and software
Access to all supporting texts via the library/online library
Trips and Guest Speakers.
Optional costs not included in your fees
Printing
Textbooks should you choose to purchase them (not necessary)
Trips that are not core to the programme, but may be offered by the University as optional enrichment activities.
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
This broad MSc will equip you with the skills, knowledge and confidence you need to succeed as a manager in any setting. It will open doors to management roles in all sectors:
private
public
not-for-profit
After graduating, you could apply for a management training programme for a major company or look for management roles in various sectors.
Although this is a new programme for 2022, students from our other business and management postgraduate courses have gone on to secure management roles and advanced graduate training positions in high-profile organisations, including:
HSBC Canada
Ernst & Young
Price Waterhouse Cooper
Some have become consultants with specialist companies while others have taken on general management roles or have even set up their own international businesses.
The course also gives you a platform to gain further professional qualifications as you take your career forward. Inspired by the intellectual challenge of the MSc, a growing number of graduates also choose to develop academic careers, moving on to PhD research or teacher training.
Ongoing careers support
Throughout your studies, you will benefit from our personal tutor scheme, which enables you to reflect on your learning and refine your career ambitions. Our support continues once you’ve completed your course too: you are entitled to further help and guidance from the
Careers and Employment Service
for up to three years after leaving the University.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Management MSc (Online)
Strategic Management MSc (Online)
Strategic Management Postgraduate Certificate (Online)