Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/nursing-health-care-practice-courses/management-long-term-conditions-pg-cert/

Management of Long Term Conditions PG Cert - Nursing and Health Care Practice - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Nursing and Health Care Practice
Management of Long Term Conditions PG Cert
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Management of Long Term Conditions
PG Cert
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2 years
UK fee
£3,780 for the full course
()
Start dates
September, January
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Studying towards a Postgraduate Certificate in Management of Long-Term Conditions at the University of Derby will:
Develop your critical thought, analysis and appraisal skills, enabling you to make innovative use of an evidence-based practice in the management of long-term conditions
Enhance your knowledge and understanding for improving practice within the context of interprofessional working
Support you in becoming an autonomous and self-directed leader,  able to sustain and advance your specialist knowledge in the management of long-term conditions.
This course will prepare you for case management of long-term conditions. On successful completion, you should be capable of moving into a case management role.
Develop case management skills
This course is ideal for you if you are working in a professional role where you need case management skills, such as that of community matron, nurse practitioner or district nurse. You will gain knowledge in long-term condition management at individual and strategic level. There is the opportunity to study an option module that allows you to focus on an area of particular interest to you. This can be negotiated with the Programme Leader.
Advance your career
When you have completed this course, you will be capable of working in roles involving case management. You could also continue your professional development further by completing a Postgraduate Diploma or MSc in a course such as Leadership in Health and Social Care.
We’re proud to say that our courses are closely mapped against the health and social care sector. This ensures that our curriculum is up-to-date, providing you with the assurance that your learning is current and relevant. This does mean that we do have to respond to national changes such as government policy. As a result, some of the information about our courses may change. Please check the website for the latest information.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You will study the modules below, to equate to 60 credits:
Principles of Long-Term Conditions Management (20 credits)
Strategic and Clinical Management of Long-Term Conditions (20 credits)
Option Module (20 credits).
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You will be assessed via presentations and assignments.
Entry requirements
You'll usually need a degree or equivalent qualification, and you must already be working in a healthcare environment.
As this course is an interim award of
MSc Leadership in Health and Social Care
, you'll need to apply for the MSc. However, you don't have to go on to complete the full masters if you don't want to, you can stop after you've completed your PG Cert.
Fees and funding
(August  - July 20undefined)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£3,780 for the full course
£3,780 for the full course
International
N/A
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Careers
You'll gain an award which reflects the current health agenda in relation to long term condition management, and enables you to demonstrate competency in assessment at advanced practitioner level.
You'll be encouraged to lead and develop the service; to demonstrate innovative practice and challenge traditional working practices.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Course: Mandy Holgate (Programme leader)
a.j.holgate
@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 502307
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.