Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/marketing-courses/marketing-ba-hons-foundation/

Marketing with Foundation Year BA (Hons) - Marketing - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Marketing
Marketing with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Accredited by The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM)
Marketing with Foundation Year
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
N50F
Start date
September
Location
Derby Campus
The highlights
Once you've completed your Foundation Year, you can continue on the general
BA (Hons) Marketing
degree or choose:
BSc (Hons) Digital Marketing
BA (Hons) Marketing, PR and Advertising
BSc (Hons) Marketing and Data Insights
BA (Hons) Marketing and Management
BA (Hons) Marketing and Consumer Psychology
This marketing degree is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), meaning if you graduate with a 2:2 or higher, you’ll gain exemptions towards CIM Certificate and Diploma modules to help fast-track your professional marketing career
We equip you with the skills, confidence and creativity to shape an organisation’s marketing strategy and help it develop a customer-led approach to business opportunities.
You’ll learn how to combine all elements of the marketing mix and how to get the best from in-house teams or outsourced agencies.
You will tackle real marketing projects for employers and then develop this experience through placements and internships.
Top
15
for Marketing and Public Relations
Guardian University Guide 2025
Top
15
for academic support  - Marketing
National Student Survey 2024
1
st
for graduate prospects (on track) - Marketing
Complete University Guide 2025
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Marketing – your questions answered
In the below video, Senior Lecturer, Devi Gill, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Marketing at the University of Derby.
Marketing is exciting and fast-paced and is now relevant to almost all organisations, whether they operate in the private, public or third sector. Every business has a requirement to market their goods or services. Some have in house teams that create campaigns, and others outsource them to creative agencies. However, all have a requirement to plan, implement, and monitor marketing activity if a business is to be successful or profitable.
With the rise of digital media, the number and variety of marketing channels has grown. This increasingly complex landscape has had a knock-on effect on jobs, creating a need for more specialist roles in sub-sectors such as content marketing, affiliate marketing, social media management, search engine optimisation and data analysis.
We have responded to these changes in the profession through our modules and courses, to reflect the need for these specialist skills.
We equip you with the skills, confidence and creativity to shape an organisation’s marketing strategy and help it develop a customer-led approach to business opportunities. You’ll learn how to combine all elements of the marketing mix and how to get the best from in-house teams or outsourced agencies.
Marketing (PR and Advertising) graduate Lewis Dunne is setting his goals high
Our Marketing degree gave Lewis the opportunity to support The Prince's Trust charity.
Read more about Lewis' story here
Read more about Lewis' story here
New Derby Business School in the city centre
We're building a new Derby Business School, serving as an international centre of excellence. The superb new teaching facilities will build on our established reputation for inspirational teaching and research excellence, as we shape the next generation of qualified business leaders.
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
CIM accreditation
This degree is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), the leading professional body for marketers worldwide. This means that CIM has independently assessed our marketing degree and is happy that it reflects their priorities and high standards. CIM accreditation is a quality mark that employers look for.
Real world experience
On this marketing degree, we take you beyond the classroom, giving you opportunities for real world experience. Thanks to our strong links with employers, you'll get the chance to work on real marketing projects, meeting clients and presenting your proposed solutions to their challenges. Recently, our students found themselves drawing up plans to:
promote new events
raise a company's profile through social media
attract more visitors to a destination, and
create a brand identity for a pub-based arts venue.
Using our industry contacts, we'll support you to find internships and placements, provide a varied programme of interesting guest speakers and draw on fascinating real world case studies to bring marketing concepts and principles to life.
Year in industry and study abroad
In addition to the 30 hours of work experience that everyone is expected to undertake in their second year, you also have the opportunity to take a placement year between years two and three of your degree. This would super-charge your employability and your prospects after graduation. We can help you find a placement and provide support during your year away.
Or why not study abroad for a semester? It's a great chance to experience a different country and culture, perhaps develop an additional language, make new connections and bring back new ideas.
Marketing (Digital) student Barbora excels during placement year
Digital Marketing student Barbora Horackova’s creative passion is steering her towards a career in social media marketing.
Read more about Barbora's story here
Read more about Barbora's story here
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Our teaching methods will be varied, interactive and engaging. You will take part in:
Lectures and seminars — led by our own tutors as well as occasionally, by guest speakers from the marketing world
Individual and group-based practical assignments, such as creating advertising slogans, blogs, infographics, social media profiles, videos and TV commercials. Many of these will be for real company briefs.
Visits to exhibitions, trade fairs and companies
Placements and internships
Research projects.
How you are assessed
You will be assessed through coursework, which will incorporate individual assignments as well as group tasks. These focus on applying what you have learned to real business scenarios and producing the kind of work that might be expected in a marketing role, for example:
Written reports based around research, including data and case studies
Visual presentations
Creative outputs such as infographics, short advertisements, films or bespoke projects for clients
Online assessments
At levels 4 and 5, you will take part in a lot of group work, which prepares you for the marketing workplace, but at level 6, you will be working independently more so you can deepen your research and critical analysis skills.
Who you'll meet
Dr Devi Gill
- Devi teaches across a range of modules in the areas of digital marketing, branding, market sensing, and design and creativity for marketers. Her research interests lie in the areas of brand heritage, authenticity and corporate social responsibility.
Tracy Powell
Tracy's background is in Strategic Management specialising in Marketing and Operations. Tracey still works in practice as a business mentor, working on a range of strategic projects applying digital marketing and consumer behaviour theories to improve business performance.
Dr Amir Modjtahedi
- Amir teaches modules in the areas of marketing operations management, marketing research skills, data analysis, and quality management systems. His research interests lie in improving productivity for organisations by adapting existing technologies and considering the impact of emerging technologies.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Opportunity to take a CIM module exam at the end of the second and third year (exam fees paid for first sit only)
Opportunity of part funded trips, optional with limited places available
Access to Finance Lab
Access to a range of software on university lab PCs
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
There is a huge range of job opportunities in marketing and related sectors. You could work for a creative or marketing agency or decide to work on the client-side as an in-house marketing expert. Here are the types of role you could go onto — you may be more suited to some of these than others if you've taken a specialist modules:
Agency roles such as Account Executive, Account Manager, Content Manager
In-house marketing roles such as:
Marketing Officer or Manager
Brand Manager
Market Analyst
SEO Analyst
Social Media Manager
PR and Communications Executive
Digital Marketing Officer
Internal Communications Executive
Self-employment: increasingly, people are choosing to work for themselves, either by setting up their own marketing agency or by working as an independent freelancer.
Further study
If you want to continue your studies at masters level, this degree provides an excellent springboard to an
MSc in Marketing Management
.
Careers in Marketing
Learn more about what you can do with a marketing degree and the types of marketing jobs available - from marketing management and digital marketing roles, to specialisms including PR and advertising.
Marketing careers information
Marketing careers information
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
This is a new course so the data displayed via Discover Uni is for students studying in another subject area.
Full-time