Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/marketing-courses/marketing-and-data-insights-bsc-hons-with-placement-year/

Marketing and Data Insights BSc (Hons) with Placement Year - Marketing - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Marketing
Marketing and Data Insights BSc (Hons) with Placement Year
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Accredited by The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM)
Marketing and Data Insights with Placement Year
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
N53P
Start date
September
Location
Derby Campus
The best bits
You’ll get the chance to work on real marketing projects, meet clients and present your ideas
This marketing degree is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), meaning if you graduate with a 2:2 or higher, you’ll gain exemptions towards CIM Certificate and
Gain a global perspective with the change to study overseas with one of our partner institutions
Our marketing degrees are designed with industry in mind – you’ll benefit from a range of guest speakers, industry projects and work experience to ensure you’ll graduate career ready
If you want to explore the critical importance of commercial management of IT and the strategic importance that business analytics has within organisations to propose and instigate IT based solutions alongside strong marketing, this is the course for you.
On this course, you can combine your interests in marketing and business technology to develop skills which will enable you to forge a career in areas like management of big data, marketing insights, business analysis or consultancy. You'll gain broad knowledge of current and future business technologies, including different types of databases, decision-making systems and e-commerce. You’ll also critically evaluate the commercial management of IT and explore the strategic importance of business analytics.  You’ll develop the ability to use this knowledge to inform strategic decisions and to evaluate and propose IT-related solutions to marketing problems.
Boost your employability with a placement year
You’ll have the opportunity to take a placement year to put the skills you’ve learned into practice in a real-world environment. We'll support you to find your placement and throughout your year in industry. Placements allow you to gain valuable experience to add to your CV, make industry contacts and help you to narrow down what kind of role you may be interested in after graduation.
Professionally approved
The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) is the leading professional body for marketers worldwide and exists to develop the marketing profession, maintain professional standards and improve the skills of marketing practitioners.
We have joined forces with CIM to give students the opportunity to gain professional qualifications through the CIM. These qualifications are highly sought after by employers, and their content is reflected in our own degrees which ensures we are equipping students with the best opportunities for a successful marketing career.
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Our teaching methods will be varied, interactive and engaging. You will take part in:
lectures and seminars — led by our own tutors as well as occasional guest speakers from the marketing world
individual and group-based practical assignments, such as creating advertising slogans, blogs, infographics, social media profiles, videos and TV commercials. Many of these will be for real company briefs
visits to exhibitions, trade fairs and companies
placements and internships
research projects.
How you are assessed
You will be assessed through coursework, which will incorporate individual assignments as well as group tasks. These focus on applying what you have learned to real business scenarios and producing the kind of work that might be expected in a marketing role, for example:
written reports based around research, including data and case studies
visual presentations
creative outputs such as infographics, short advertisements, films, blogs, podcasts or bespoke projects and pitches for clients
at levels 4 and 5, you will take part in some group work, which prepares you for the marketing workplace, but at level 6, you will be working independently so you can deepen your research and critical analysis skills.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Tracy Powell
Programme Leader
Tracy Powell
Tracy is the Programme Leader for  Digital Marketing and teaches on a number of modules across all levels of the Undergraduate Marketing programmes.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Opportunity to take a CIM module exam at the end of the second and third year (exam fees paid for first sit only)
Opportunity of part funded trips, optional with limited places available
Access to a range of software on university lab PCs
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Demand for data insight specialists in marketing is high. Your skills in both the marketing and IT field could lead to a range of roles in fields such as database management, marketing insights, purchasing or logistics.
Or why not study further with our:
MSc Marketing Management
(Alumni discount available)
Careers and Employment Service
Our Careers and Employment Service can help you boost your employment skills by connecting you with employers for work placements, part-time jobs, and volunteering. They can also offer guidance on career options, CV writing, or starting your own business.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Other courses you might like
Marketing BA (Hons)
Digital Marketing BSc (Hons)
Marketing, PR and Advertising BA (Hons)
Marketing with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Marketing and Consumer Psychology BA (Hons)