Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/marketing-courses/marketing-pr-advertising-ba-hons/

Marketing, PR and Advertising BA (Hons) - Marketing - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Marketing
Marketing, PR and Advertising BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CMI)
Marketing, PR and Advertising
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years,  Part-time: Up to 6 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
N560
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
This degree is accredited by the
Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM)
, meaning if you choose specific modules, you’ll gain exemptions towards the CIM Diploma in Professional Marketing, enhancing your credibility as a marketer
Focus on the integrated management of marketing, marketing communications, PR and advertising
Improve your marketing knowledge whilst appreciating the full multi-media approach to marketing communications
Internships and hands-on projects for companies enable you to work on real marketing issues and develop your marketing skills
You may also be interested in
BA (Hons) Marketing, PR and Advertising with Placement Year
If you're interested in studying Marketing, you may also be interested in:
BA (Hons) Marketing
BSc (Hons) Digital Marketing
BA (Hons) Marketing and Management
BA (Hons) Marketing and Consumer Psychology
BSc (Hons) Marketing and Data Insights
Top
15
for Marketing and Public Relations
Guardian University Guide 2025
Top
15
for academic support  - Marketing
National Student Survey 2024
1
st
for graduate prospects (on track) - Marketing
Complete University Guide 2025
All companies use marketing as a vital tool to promote products, services and brands to different audiences. The BA (Hons) Marketing, PR and Advertising offers a core understanding of key marketing, branding and communication concepts preparing you for a successful career in advertising and PR in either an organisation or agency environment.
Relevant, respected, rewarding
This is a practical, in-depth study of one of the most exciting business disciplines. You’ll be fully prepared to plan and execute effective communication campaigns that deliver the right message to the right people at the right time.
As you develop your skills in marketing, PR and advertising techniques you’ll understand how a strong and consistent brand image is developed and what impact it has on business profitability. By the end of the course, you will have built a professional digital portfolio.
The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM)
The
Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM)
is the leading professional body for marketers worldwide and exists to develop the marketing profession, maintain professional standards and improve the skills of marketing practitioners.
We have joined forces with CIM to give students the opportunity to gain professional qualifications through the CIM. These qualifications are highly sought after by employers, and their content is reflected in our own degrees which ensures we are equipping students with the best opportunities for a successful marketing career.
How student Ellie was headhunted by Twitter
Student Ellie Kean has been able to put the skills she’s been learning on her BA (Hons) Marketing (PR and Advertising) degree into practice after being headhunted for a summer internship with Twitter.
Find out more
Find out more
Connected in to a business network
Raise your profile and enrich your learning throughout your Marketing, PR and Advertising degree as you network and make connections with agencies and businesses working on consultancy projects and live case-studies and projects. Our students have worked on consultancy projects, offering marketing advice to local young entrepreneurs. They have had opportunities to meet clients and present marketing solutions.
Learning outside the classroom
You'll take part in field trips to trade fairs and exhibitions and work on many live company projects throughout your studies meaning your work is relevant and up-to-date with market trends. Put your knowledge in to practice by securing an internship to build your skills and develop your portfolio.
Learn from the experts
Our vast experience marketing will be your guide. Our teaching team is enthusiastic, innovative, knowledgeable - ambitious for you and supporting you all the way. We have research expertise spanning everything from consumer behaviour to business intelligence. Our lecturers are marketing specialists and many of them have worked in industry for years. The Head of Discipline,
Dr Alison Lawson
, has her own blog -
Musings on methodology
- featuring her personal thoughts, ideas and opinions on research methods.
New Derby Business School in the city centre
We're building a new Derby Business School, serving as an international centre of excellence. The superb new teaching facilities will build on our established reputation for inspirational teaching and research excellence, as we shape the next generation of qualified business leaders.
Find out more about our new Derby Business School
Find out more about our new Derby Business School
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Our teaching methods will be varied, interactive and engaging. You will take part in:
Lectures and seminars — led by our own tutors as well as occasionally, by guest speakers from the marketing world
Individual and group-based practical assignments, such as creating advertising slogans, blogs, infographics, social media profiles, videos and TV commercials. Many of these will be for real company briefs
Visits to exhibitions, trade fairs and companies
Internships
Research projects
You will be encouraged to be creative, whether you're creating eye-catching media, memorable slogans or designing mood boards to find new innovative ways to communicate with your audience. Some of your learning will be classroom based, sometimes you will want to use computer labs and at other times you may work in a studio. You’ll use new digital technology to create digital content, including blogs, vlogs, videos and TV commercials.
Assessment
You will be assessed through coursework, which will incorporate individual assignments as well as group tasks. These focus on applying what you have learned to real business scenarios and producing the kind of work that might be expected in a marketing role, for example:
Written reports based around research, including data and case studies
Visual presentations
Creative outputs such as infographics, short advertisements, films or bespoke projects for clients
Online assessments
At levels 4 and 5, you will take part in a lot of group work, which prepares you for the marketing workplace, but at level 6, you will be working independently more so you can deepen your research and critical analysis skills.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Tracy Powell
Programme Leader
Tracy Powell
Tracy is the Programme Leader for  Digital Marketing and teaches on a number of modules across all levels of the Undergraduate Marketing programmes.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBB-BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Opportunity to take a CIM module exam at the end of the second and third year (exam fees paid for first sit only)
Opportunity of part funded trips, optional with limited places available
Access to Finance Lab
Access to a range of software on university lab PCs
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Demand for advertising, PR and communication specialists in marketing is high. Your skills in campaign development, analysis and measurement of results will be in demand as a marketer who can demonstrate impact and return on investment.
You’ll have a great foundation to begin a successful career in areas like account, product, brand or communications management.
Past Marketing, PR and Advertising students have gone on to work in large, multi-national blue chip companies, some have set up their own businesses; some work in marketing departments, some in specialist businesses; some work in the public sector. In all these areas there is a need for marketing skills for organisations to understand consumer needs and influence consumer behaviours.
Or why not study further with our:
MSc Marketing Management
(
Alumni discount available
)
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Marketing, PR and Advertising BA (Hons) with Placement Year
Marketing BA (Hons)
Digital Marketing BSc (Hons)
Marketing BA (Hons) with Placement Year
Marketing and Consumer Psychology BA (Hons)