Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/marketing-courses/marketing-management-msc/

Marketing Management MSc - Marketing - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Marketing
Marketing Management MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Marketing Management
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2-3 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, January
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Explore consumer decision-making, marketing communications, branding and customer satisfaction – all within a global context
Put what you learn into practice by working on real projects for real businesses to help shape their future success
Take the opportunity to join a local company on a marketing internship, deepening your professional insights and improving your career prospects
Draw inspiration from an MSc Marketing Management teaching team with extensive marketing experience, including researchers who are breaking new ground in market sensing
Learn alongside students from around the world, so you’ll benefit from sharing global business experiences.
96
%
of students agree they are satisfied with the quality of their course
MSc Marketing Management - Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2024
This highly regarded MSc Marketing Management will increase your understanding of what marketing is – and isn’t – and how it can be applied effectively and creatively in real-world scenarios.
Take your knowledge to a strategic level
Leading employers worldwide increasingly expect their marketing staff – experienced professionals and new recruits alike – to have a specialist degree such as an MSc.
Our course is designed to give you a thorough understanding of the core concepts of marketing and to practise these in safe but realistic business and marketing situations.
Building on the broad contextual aspects of marketing, you’ll focus on how to create and implement strategic marketing plans and how to manage brands. Our emphasis is on fostering your creativity, helping you to address marketing challenges in new and original ways. Every module has an international dimension to enhance your global perspectives too. We also aim to develop your practical and creative skills beyond the operational and functional so that you gain a more strategic level of understanding.
Influential partnerships
Our MSc Marketing Management is designed and delivered in collaboration with highly respected companies and organisations operating at local, national and international levels. The partnerships span many areas from retail to the not-for-profit sector.
You’ll meet industry experts from our thriving professional and business networks, many of whom contribute thought-provoking guest lectures and masterclasses. You’ll hear first hand what happens at the sharp end of the marketing business across vastly different organisational cultures.
You can also extend your professional contacts through networking at showcase events such as prestige conferences and meetings of the University’s own Network of Entrepreneurs. Our annual Marketing Festival – a rare opportunity to hear from some of the country’s leading marketers – sets the scene for the future of the profession.
Our graduates regularly return to take part in these events and share their career experiences. Their feedback also helps shape the continuing development of the course.
Put your learning into action
We give you every opportunity to apply latest marketing concepts and theories to real-world business scenarios. Internships, company visits and mini-projects are a cornerstone of this course and most modules use real businesses as case studies.
You’ll gain vital experience by working in a team of marketing consultants for our partner companies. Recent projects have seen our students developing branding ideas for Haddon Hall; creating a marketing strategy for the English Wine Project; advising supply chain compliance firm Altius on new markets in Europe and beyond; and undertaking customer research for the Derwent Rural Counselling Service to help raise greater awareness of its work.
The internship opportunities on offer are equally wide-ranging. Our students have worked with organisations as diverse as an eating disorder charity and the British Occupational Hygiene Society.
A global and local career
Hazell’s marketing career is taking off in both the global and local markets. Since completing her MSc Marketing Management, she has not one but two marketing jobs - one in Derby and one with a global clothing brand.
Read her story
Read her story
Attuned to latest industry thinking
Our teaching team has extensive experience in marketing for a broad spectrum of organisations and an excellent network of contacts. They also draw on the influential market sensing research underway at the University, giving you access to the latest thinking in areas such as customer behaviour, marketing strategy, branding, communications, social media management, internal marketing and customer relationship management.
We pride ourselves on delivering a challenging but fun learning environment to set you on your way to career success. Feedback shows that our current and former students particularly value the support they receive from our approachable and inspirational tutors.
Pursue your specialist interests
The culmination of the MSc Marketing Management is your Independent Study where you select a sector or aspect of marketing which reflects your professional interests and career ambitions.
This is your chance to conduct in-depth research, using critical thinking, investigative and problem-solving skills which will serve you well in your future career. You’ll ask searching questions, review literature, undertake research, draw conclusions and make recommendations.
The range of topics covered is vast. Among recent examples, our students have investigated how SMEs accept and use social media; how consumers become ‘fans’; effective marketing communications for the charity sector; differentiation in women’s magazines leading to a new typology of consumers; social media strategies for reaching international students; and the impact of marketing messages from organisations offering weight-loss services.
New Derby Business School in the city centre
We're building a new Derby Business School, serving as an international centre of excellence. The superb new teaching facilities will build on our established reputation for inspirational teaching and research excellence, as we shape the next generation of qualified business leaders.
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You will enrol on the 180-credit MSc Marketing Management. However, if you leave before completing the full programme, you will gain a Postgraduate Certificate with 60 credits and a Postgraduate Diploma with 120 credits.
To complete the MSc Marketing Management, you'll study modules such as:
Integrated Marketing Communications in a Digital World
We will develop your understanding of integrated marketing communications theory and practice in a cross-cultural context. You’ll examine the impact of culture on marketing communication and apply your knowledge creatively in practical situations, using various marketing tools. This module draws on theoretical frameworks, cross-cultural psychology and insights into customer behaviour to help you devise viable solutions to complex communication challenges.
Marketing Metrics
This module introduces the techniques for measuring and monitoring digital marketing communication campaigns and how to effectively manage individual web projects to maximise resources and investment return. The module also highlights legislation which is required to meet the minimum standards and accessibility for web users.
Consumer Behaviour in the Modern Era
We explore the global, cultural and social contexts in which consumption takes place, including customer decision-making and customer satisfaction. In particular, we examine the impact of strategic and tactical marketing decisions on customer behaviour. This module will develop your ability to evaluate marketing options in the light of customer and business objectives as well as corporate social responsibilities to individuals, organisations and wider society.
Strategic Brand Management
This module will deepen your understanding of the role of branding in positioning an organisation both internally and externally. We explore the challenges involved in creating distinctive, sustainable and differentiated brand identities in an increasingly crowded marketplace – for private, public, for-profit and not-for-profit organisations. You will have the chance to evaluate branding strategies and tactics critically and will build the insights, skills and competences you need to develop brands for a range of sectors and industries.
Services Marketing and User Experience
Providing opportunities for strategic thinking, creativity and innovation, this module focuses on how companies need to adapt their range of service offers to reflect the changing needs of customers and technological advances. You’ll examine key factors of the business environment that encourage innovation, including the life cycles of services, their market positioning, repositioning and withdrawal; the operational effectiveness of services; and how they align with the overall strategy of an organisation.
Contemporary Marketing Challenges
We examine how to measure business performance from a strategic and marketing perspective, including brand evaluation, CRM, satisfaction measurement and loyalty measurement. This module also considers the impact of such measures on how organisations and individuals behave. You’ll harness both quantitative and qualitative research methods to explore how appropriate measures can be identified and tracked.
Independent Study: Research Methods
20 credit module.
Independent Study: Dissertation
40 credit module.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Each module is studied on campus through a blend of lectures, seminars, tutorials and self-study. Modules are supported with e-learning materials via our electronic platform ‘Blackboard’ as well as text-based resources.
You’ll receive high-quality support from academic staff throughout the MSc Marketing Management programme, going far beyond the contact you have in lectures and seminars. We remain accessible to our students via email, phone and office visits. Your learning will also be enriched by the exchange of ideas and experiences with your peer group of students.
How you are assessed
All assessment is rooted in professional practice, demonstrating the link between academic theory and marketing in the real world.
Types of assessment range from reports, online tests and presentations - in person and on video - to mood boards, posters and infographics. Assessments are practical and creative, developing your skills as a marketer and as a manager.
Who you will meet
Barbara Tomasella
- Programme Leader for the MSc Marketing Management, Barbara is an experienced CSR and sustainability marketing professional, with a background in business consultancy, tourism and information technologies.
Dr Charles Hancock
- Charles is a creative lecturer who is passionate about marketing and helping students achieve their best. He draws upon a wealth of various international industry experience from apprentice to boardroom, and has taught a variety of Business and Marketing subjects at the University of Derby since 2010.
Lee Miller
- Lee leads and teaches on a range of modules focusing mainly on services, consumer behaviour and sustainability.
Dr Christian Veasey
- Christian has over 20 years of sales and marketing experience in senior management positions, plus seven years of experience of working in global director roles for several entrepreneurial enterprises.
Dr Elnerine Greeff
- Throughout Elnerine's academic career, she has held positions in marketing consultancy as a marketing and layout specialist, marketing account manager and consultant, principally dealing with market- and consumer research for clients.
Who will teach you
Barbara Tomasella
Programme Leader
Barbara Tomasella
Barbara is a Senior Lecturer in Marketing.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You'll usually need:
A degree of at least a 2:2, or equivalent
If English is not your first language, you will also need IELTs 6.5 with 5.5 in each skills area.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Opportunity of part funded trips, optional with limited places available
Access to a range of software on university lab PC
Access to Finance Lab for databases and software
Optional costs not included in your fees
Printing
Textbooks
CIM Membership
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Full-time 12 month and part-time
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
A widely respected postgraduate qualification, our MSc Marketing Management is a powerful way to set yourself apart in an increasingly competitive job market.
You will benefit not only from a broad training in the key marketing concepts but also from our strong focus on marketing management and leadership skills. It means you can differentiate yourself further still from graduates with general marketing degrees.
By the time you complete your MSc Marketing Management, you will have experienced many different aspects of marketing and will be ideally placed to start or resume your career in the profession or even to move into broader business and management spheres.
Our graduates are now succeeding in senior marketing roles worldwide with companies such as Unilever in Malawi and UBS in Poland. Others are working with leading agencies or have even set up their own businesses.
Ongoing careers support
Throughout your studies, you will benefit from Personal Development Planning with your personal tutor, who will help you to reflect on your learning and refine your career aspirations. They will point you in the right direction towards further training and internship opportunities so that you can gain any additional experience you need to pursue your ambitions.
Our support continues once you’ve completed your course too: you are entitled to further help and guidance from the
Careers and Employment Service
for up to three years after leaving the University.
Following my passion
Finding your passion for a subject is not always a straightforward journey. After she completed the MSc Marketing Management, Bowen went on to study a PhD in Marketing.
Read Bowen's story
Read Bowen's story
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Master of Business Administration - MBA Global