Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/marketing-courses/marketing-management-ba-hons-top-up/

Marketing (Management) (Top-Up) BA (Hons) - Marketing - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Marketing
Marketing (Management) (Top-Up) BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Marketing (Management) Top-Up
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS code
N50T
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Top-up your existing HND or Diploma level qualifications to a full honours degree and enhance your career progression
Combine essential skills and knowledge of marketing whilst developing managerial skills
Placements, internships and hands-on projects for companies enable you to work on real marketing issues and develop your marketing skills
This top-up programme is designed to build on your existing marketing knowledge whilst helping you to develop managerial skills. It offers a direct route into management and marketing careers. In just one year of full-time study, you will have a highly regarded degree that will prepare you for management roles in marketing, communications and business development.
New Derby Business School in the city centre
We're building a new Derby Business School, serving as an international centre of excellence. The superb new teaching facilities will build on our established reputation for inspirational teaching and research excellence, as we shape the next generation of qualified business leaders.
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Find out more about the Cavendish Building
Accelerate your career progression
Designed specifically for students who have not taken a full degree course in marketing previously, it builds upon your existing marketing knowledge and skills, with a focus on management. We equip you with the skills, confidence and creativity to shape an organisation’s marketing strategy and help it develop a customer-led approach to business opportunities.
Build your networks
You’ll be invited to masterclasses and guest lectures delivered by influential thinkers, including Professor John Rudd and Dr Dave Chaffey. You’ll also benefit from our strong links with regional marketing and communication agencies to ensure that your learning is up to date and reflecting the real world. The programme includes real world case studies working with local organisations, visits to exhibitions trade fairs and companies, and guest speakers from industry. You can also extend your professional contacts through networking at showcase events such as our Marketing 2020 event.
Learn from expert academics
Our teaching team has extensive experience in marketing for a broad spectrum of organisations and an excellent network of contacts. The team is made up of industry experienced marketing specialists. They include influential researchers shedding new light on areas including customer behaviour and market sensing.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
We offer field trips to trade fairs, visits to exhibitions and we work on numerous live company projects to guarantee our courses are relevant and up to date with current market trends. There is also an opportunity to join a ‘student consultancy group' for those who wish to develop their skills and grow a professional portfolio.
You will be encouraged to be creative, whether you're creating eye-catching media, memorable slogans or designing mood boards to find new innovative ways to communicate with your audience. Some of your learning will be classroom based, sometimes you will want to use computer labs and at other times you may work in a studio.
You will learn to be adaptive in your communications to meet the needs of different consumers. Above all you will develop practical skills of marketing, alongside the sound theories and this process will be enhanced through work based learning such as projects and your Placement.
Our BA (Hons) Marketing Management (top-up) modules are assessed by coursework and a variety of assignments.
Who you will meet
Dr Barbara Tomasella
Tracy Powell
Christine Harrop-Griffiths
Dr Charles Hancock
Lee Miller
Dr Alison Lawson
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
N/A
A Level
N/A
BTEC
N/A
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
N/A
You need to have an HND or Foundation degree in a relevant subject.
You need at least five GCSEs (or equivalent) including Maths and English at grade 4/C or above.
When you apply, please send us a transcript of the modules you have already studied so that we can make sure that the HND or foundation degree is compatible with the top-up programme.
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Opportunity of part funded trips, optional with limited places available
Access to Finance Lab
Access to a range of software on university lab PCs
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
This qualification will offer you a direct route into management and marketing careers and will add momentum to your career development plans. Derby marketing graduates achieve excellent results and ultimately become high achievers destined for board positions or entrepreneurial wealth creators. You can take full advantage of the rapidly emerging career opportunities in marketing. You’ll also be well positioned for management level jobs.
You’ll be prepared for various roles such as Marketing Manager, Marketing Officer, Marketing Executive, PR Manager, Advertising Executive, Business Development Officer/Manager, Communications Manager, Marketing Analyst/Researcher, and Customer Insight Manager.
You could work in areas including advertising and the media, communications and public relations, sales, promotions and events management, market research, marketing management and operations.
On completion, you could go straight to a Master’s degree, which is just one more year of full-time study, and you’ll be eligible for an alumni fee discount as a University of Derby graduate.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.