Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/materials-science-technologist/

Materials Science Technologist Degree Apprenticeship - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Materials Science Technologist Degree Apprenticeship
Apply now
Apply now
Apprenticeship Course
Materials Science Technologist Degree Apprenticeship
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Next course date
September
Duration
48 months (this does not include the EPA period)
Delivery
Face to face
Location
Derby Campus
Lecture/workshop days - dates/times
Lectures and workshops will be based on day release
Course description
The Materials Science Technologist Degree Apptenticeship has been designed to product Material Technologists who can operate across a range of engineering sectors, including:
Manufacturing
Transportation
Construction
Petrochemical
Nuclear
Material failure
Rheology
Traditional and Advanced Ceramics
As part of the Materials Science Technologist Trailblazer group the programme has been designed in collaboration with the Materials Engineering Group at Rolls-Royce plc, as well as in consultation with other companies across different sectors and industries.
The degree apprenticeship provides a solid background and appropriate skills that enable apprentices to practice successfully as a professional materials technologist or engineer within any of the advanced engineering sectors. The programme seeks to strike an equitable balance between underpinning academic concepts, practical work in the workplace and at the University and techniques necessary for a successful career in materials and the demands of employers and professional bodies for this discipline-specific programme.
The programme provides the knowledge base needed in the fundamental principles of materials engineering in order to facilitate decision making concerning materials optimisation for the design, selection and production of functional elements and processes, as well as their appropriate and economic use and the ethical and sustainable use of resources. It creates an appreciation of the underpinning principles and constraints associated with materials engineering and the application of technology within an industrial engineering and global context.
An e-portfolio will be assessed as part of the Gateway Assessment for entry to the End Point Assessment (EPA). This is assessed independently from the University by an End Point Assessment Organisation (EPAO).
Who's it for?
The Materials Science Technologist Degree Apprenticeship is a broadbased degree apprenticeship, which has been designed for individuals who are materials technologists and can operate across a whole range of engineering sectors and fits the manufacturing sector as well the transport equipment and construction industry sectors.
Working alongside leading scientists and engineers
In July 2021, Patrick graduated from the Materials Science Technologist Degree Apprenticeship with Rolls-Royce. He explains what the Materials Science Technologist Apprenticeship entails and how it has helped his career.
Learn more about the Materials Science Technologist Apprenticeship
Learn more about the Materials Science Technologist Apprenticeship
Structure, certificates and assessment
What you will study
You will be studying this course part time over four years. The degree apprenticeship is a workbased learning qualification, comprised of off the job and on the job learning. Throughout your studies, you will be able to apply your learning into practice within the workplace.
Modules
Year One
Applied Scientific Methods
Materials Data Skills and Personal Development Planning
Computer Aided Design
Materials and Manufacturing Processes
Thermodynamics
Business Management and Regulations
Year Two
Advanced Applied Analytical Methods Two
Advanced Materials Properties and Processing
Structural Analysis and Materials
Investigation Techniques, Modelling and Materials Characterisation
Corporate Responsibility and Professional Development
Year Three
Forensic Investigation of Materials Failures
Engineering Composite Materials
Technical Responsibility
Design for Manufacturing and Materials Optimisation
Year Four
Independent Study and Professional Development
Advanced Engineering Materials and Applications
Request more information about our apprenticeship programmes
Want to talk to a member of the team about our apprenticeship programmes? Make an enquiry and a member of our team will get in contact with to provide you with more information about our apprenticeships, and how our programmes can up-skill your workforce.
Request more information about apprenticeships
Request more information about apprenticeships
Entry requirements
Employment requirements
You must be in paid employment for at least 30 hours per week and your employer must agree to cover the costs of the apprenticeship.
Academic requirements
Employers usually set their own selection criteria and entry requirements and we can work with them on this. However, typically an applicant might be expected to have level 3 qualifications, such as:
A-Level Maths
A-Level Chemistry, Physics or Engineering
You will also be required to have five GCSE passes including the following subjects:
Maths
English
Science
Fees and funding
The cost will be paid for by the employer.
More details for employers
The cost of this apprenticeship will normally be in line with the funding band £24,000 but we will consider individual agreements, depending on student numbers and your involvement.
If you pay into the Apprenticeship Levy, this funding will be used. If you don't, generous government subsidies are available - talk to us to find out more.
How to apply
You will need to apply through your employer. However, you can find out more from us - please see below for contact information.
Who will teach you
Dr Yiling Lu
Programme leader
Yiling is a Senior Lecturer in Engineering.
View full staff profile
View full staff profile
Contact us
Apprenticeship Hub
Email:
apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk
Phone:
01332 593092