Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/business-courses/mba-professional/

MBA Professional - Business - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Business
MBA Professional
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
MBA Professional
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Part-time: Up to 3 years
UK fee
£1,385 per 20 credits
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Derby Campus
In a post-Brexit, post-Covid-19 world, professional leadership skills will be more essential than ever to drive growth and organisational change.
Designed for ambitious managers and leaders, our MBA Professional blends academic study with real work-based scenarios. You will develop the strategic direction and vision to accelerate your professional management career and become an inclusive, forward-thinking leader and role model within your organisation.
The highlights
Designed specifically for part-time study which allows you to continue in your role – no need to step off the career ladder while you study
Apply your learning directly in your workplace, with work-related assignments aligned to your modules
Explore important aspects of business and management, including marketing, human resource management, financial performance, supply chain and logistics operations, governance and risk
Our expert tutors have extensive business and management expertise and strong networks that will enhance your learning
You will be supported and guided through your studies by a personal academic tutor
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
The course is made up of three stages – Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma and MBA. To complete the MBA, you'll study modules such as:
Postgraduate Certificate
Understanding HRM
Information Systems for Sustaining Competitive Advantage
Introduction to Business Research Methods and Data Analysis
The Sustainable Global Business Environment
Marketing in Organisations
Governance and Risk
Postgraduate Diploma
Improving Supply Chain and Logistics Operations
Strategic and Financial Performance Management
Critical Perspectives in Strategic Leadership and Management
MBA
You will conclude your MBA studies with either a traditional dissertation or a Project.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
The focus of this course is on applying your learning directly to your workplace, and you will be encouraged to grow and develop as an independent learner.
Face-to-face or online tutorials will prepare you for project-based assignments and provide opportunities to reflect on these.
You will also develop deeper research skills through completion of a dissertation - an extended research project negotiated to reflect your organisation and specific area of interest.
Who will teach you
Simon Smith
Programme Leader
Simon Smith
Simon Smith is a Senior Lecturer and Programme Leader for the MBA Global and MBA Global Finance Part-Time. Prior to working in academia he was a senior manager in the semiconductor industry and continues to work with many organisations...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
Applicants should normally hold a good honours degree (minimum upper second class) from a UK university (or overseas equivalent) in any subject or a professional qualification deemed to be of equivalent standing. Alternatively, applicants may have significant management experience and a substantial record of achievement. Applicants meeting these criteria may not have previously studied at university.
We welcome and encourage all applicants as long as they can be considered adequately prepared to succeed on the programme. If learners have few or no formal qualifications, they may be able to gain entry to the programme if they have the required communication and learning skills as well as the knowledge, experience and motivation to succeed.
All applications are considered on an individual basis. Applicants may be invited to an interview, either on campus or online, as part of the application process.
When submitting your application, please ensure it is complete, with all the relevant documents requested in the application form.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
N/A
£1,385 per 20 credits
International
N/A
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional fee information
*Note – at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the awards below.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MBA
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MBA. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Additional costs and optional extras
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to online university library resources
Access to Finance Lab
Access to a range of software on university lab PCs
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Completion of this course will prepare you for senior leadership and management roles in the private, public or third sector. Job roles could include:
General Manager
Senior Manager
Executive Director
Chief Operating Officer
Chief Financial Officer
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Information Officer
Senior Military Officer
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Master of Business Administration - MBA Global
Senior Leader Apprenticeship
Doctorate in Business Administration (DBA)