Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/business-courses/global-mba-online/

Global MBA - Business - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Business
Global MBA
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
MBA Global
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 2-3 years
UK fee
£13,500
(2024/25)
‡
International fee
£13,500
(2024/25)
‡
Start dates
September, January, May
Location
Online
Since its conception at Harvard over a century ago, the Master of Business Administration (MBA) degree is recognised worldwide as an essential qualification for anyone aspiring to become a successful manager or an inspiring leader.
Our new online MBA Global will equip you with the strategic knowledge and confidence to succeed and excel in managerial roles within the business sector. It is designed for a new generation of ambitious business professionals and graduates with an international outlook. The business world is experiencing rapid growth on an international scale and now, more than ever, managers within every industry need to devise with a strategy for global scalability. Throughout the course, you will develop skills and study areas valued and needed by the industry.
An online MBA
Our dynamic online MBA Global allows you to apply everything you learn to real-world business scenarios. Expanding further than a classroom based education, your assignments will require you to implement your theoretical knowledge to tackle contemporary scenarios faced by global businesses. You will be able to critically examine a wide variety of areas and topics, such as strategic leadership, financial management, global operations, markets and resources, business research methods and data analysis. The later stages of this MBA Global will then focus on key themes in international business such as risk management and global supply chain management.
Not only that, but our MBA Global is cleverly structured so that you can move beyond a domestic business mindset to consider issues and seek solutions in a truly global context.
Skills you will learn
Strategic awareness and thinking
Confident leadership
Presenting logical and relevant arguments
Critical evaluation
Innovation and the confidence to challenge traditional ways of thinking
Areas you will study
Strategic management
Strategic leadership
Risk
Supply chain
Sustainability
An accredited MBA course
This online MBA Global course is accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and includes membership of CMI.
An academic degree and professional qualification
Upon completion of the MBA Global, you will be eligible for the CMI Level 7 Diploma in Strategic Management and Leadership Practice alongside your MBA. This means you can apply to become a Chartered Manager, the highest status in the management profession. It is the hallmark of any professional manager and will allow you to excel in the sector. Our MBA Global will put you in an excellent position to excel in the business sector.
Helping Thobekile take her career to the next level
Online student Thobekile Ncube will overcome any challenge. Water and electricity shutdowns will not stop her studying. And she is patient. If reading by candlelight is impossible, she will wait until the power comes back on – even if it is in the middle of the night.
Read Thobekile's story
Read Thobekile's story
What you will study
You can
view the study plan for this online course
.
To achieve the MBA Global, you will need to complete 60 credits at each stage, totalling 180 credits. You will conclude stage 3 of your MBA Global studies with a dissertation worth 60 credits.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
Pace of study
The academic year is made up of three 10-week terms, known as trimesters. We recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete one 20-credit module over a 10-week trimester.
If you opt to undertake the accelerated study plan whereby you will study two modules in one trimester, we recommend 40 hours of study per week.
Should you decide to study on the accelerated rate you should ensure that you have the capacity to fully engage with your studies and achieve the best grades and final award. If you choose to study on the accelerated rate, you will need to balance approximately 40 hours of study per week alongside your professional and personal life and commitments.
It may be useful to consider studying one module at the standard rate of study before deciding whether to then increase to the accelerated rate of study.
There will be 1/2 virtual classrooms over the 10 week trimester and if you are unable to attend you will be able to download the session to view in your own time.
Assessment method
This course is assessed through 100% coursework with a range of methods, such as essays, research reports, presentations, group work and practical reports.
Don't just take our word for it...
Graduate Nicolas Goddard talks about his time as a student with University of Derby Online Learning.
View Nicolas Goddard and the online MBA Global video transcript
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Who will teach you
Dr Justin Okoli
Programme Leader
Dr Justin Okoli
Justin Okoli is a Senior Lecturer in Business and Management at Derby Business School
View full staff profile
→
Explore all teaching staff on this course
Get a taste of the course content
Our MBA Global course taster will give you an idea of how online learning works. It includes a selection of content from a course module so you can see what some of our learning material looks like.
You will need to complete a short form to access the course taster.
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Entry requirements
Applicants should normally hold a good honours degree (minimum upper second class) from a UK university (or overseas equivalent) in any subject or a professional qualification deemed to be of equivalent standing. Alternatively, applicants may have significant management experience and a substantial record of achievement. Applicants meeting these criteria may not have previously studied at university
We welcome and encourage all applicants as long as they can be considered adequately prepared to succeed on the programme. If learners have few or no formal qualifications, they may be able to gain entry to the programme if they have the required communication and learning skills as well as the knowledge, experience and motivation to succeed.
All applications are considered on an individual basis. Applicants may be invited to an interview, either on campus or online, as part of the application process.
English language qualifications
We welcome applications from international students. If your first language is not English you will need to have at least one of the following English language qualifications listed below. You may be exempt from providing evidence of English language proficiency if you have gained your undergraduate degree from a UK university.
IELTS (International English Language Testing System) 6.5 (minimum of 5.5 in each component)
TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) 580 (paper based) 237 (computer based) or 92 (internet based)
Pearson Test of Academic English: 51
Cambridge Advanced Certificate: pass
London Tests of English: we accept level 5 for postgraduate courses
International GCE O-level English Language: grade C
International GCSE English/English as a Second Language: grade C
Find out more about our English language requirements
Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL)
Have you already studied at another institution, completed a training course, or does your work experience appear equivalent to one or more modules of your chosen course? If so, you may be able to translate this prior learning into credits towards your course modules, so you don’t have to study them again.
Further information about applying for credits for prior learning can be found in
our recognition of prior learning section
.
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
Stage 1 - Certificate
£1,500
3
£4,500
Stage 2 - Diploma
£1,500
3
£4,500
Stage 3 - Masters
£4,500
1
£4,500
Total cost
£13,500
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
Stage 1 - Certificate
£1,550
3
£4,650
Stage 2 - Diploma
£1,550
3
£4,650
Stage 3 - Masters
£4,650
1
£4,650
Total cost
£13,950
About your fees
This figure would be the total cost of this course based on the fee in the current academic year. However, please note that fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase if your course lasts longer than one year.
If you are required to undertake any associate study or additional study as a condition of your offer for the programme, please be aware that the cost for this may be in addition to the programme cost stated above.
Flexible payment plans available
Choose from
two payment plan options
:
Pay monthly and only for the modules you are studying
Pay your full course fees upfront and avoid annual increases
Masters funding options
Depending on where you are from in the UK or EU, and on your pace of study, you may be eligible for a
postgraduate student loan
. Accessible through Student Finance, this is a non-income based loan to help with living costs and tuition fees whilst studying your masters programme.
If you are considering applying for a student loan, please also see our additional guidance on
Loans for Online Students
.
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out more about the Alumni discount
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Current CV
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Application deadlines
All of our online courses have set start dates throughout the year. We require time to review your application and get back to you with a response before your course starts. Take a look at
information regarding applying for an online course
to see full details of deadlines and term dates.
Careers
Upon graduation from this online MBA Global, you will be well equipped for a successful career in managerial and leadership roles. The hands-on work-based learning elements of this programme enable you to generate immediate impact whether progressing to a new role or advancing within your existing organisation. As an MBA, you mark yourself as having achieved the internationally recognised standard in strategic leadership and management, and your new career prospects will reflect this.
As your career within multi-national organisations advances, you will typically become involved across many intricate dimensions of business management. You will be competent to implement robust theoretical and practical knowledge that can be applied across any industry worldwide.
As a graduate of our online MBA Global, you will be excellently equipped with the ability to tackle areas including but not limited to:
Recruitment and training
Strategic planning and decision making
Financial analysis and forecasting
Competitor and macro environment research
Communication with internal and external stakeholders such as directors, customers and investors
Gaining a postgraduate degree like the MBA Global can also significantly boost your earning potential. Latest government statistics* show that postgraduates earn on average £6,000 more per year than graduates.
Eventually, your career opportunities will be widened exponentially as your higher level academic understanding of globalised business, accompanied by a worldwide influencer network and extensive work experience, prepares you to transition into senior, directorial, executive and C-level (chief officer) roles. Similarly, this fundamental academic knowledge can be repurposed to support you if you boast an entrepreneurial flair and seek opportunities to start up or grow your own business.
*Graduate Labour Market Statistics 2015, Department for Business, Innovation and Skills
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
Strategic Management MSc
Master of Business Administration - MBA Global - including specialist pathways
International Business MSc
Strategic Sustainability Management MSc