Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/mechanical-manufacturing-engineering-courses/mechanical-manufacturing-engineering-msc/

Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering MSc - Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2-3 years
UK fee
£9,000 for the full course or £1,000 per 20 credits*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, January
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
Develop the skills and knowledge employers are seeking and advance your career to senior levels in areas such as automotive, aerospace, petrochemical, scientific or manufacturing engineering applications.
The accredited MSc will meet, in part, the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer. Accredited MSc graduates who also have a BEng (Hons) accredited for CEng will be able to show that they have satisfied the educational base for CEng registration
Draw inspiration from our excellent industry links with major names such as Rolls-Royce, Toyota, Balfour Beatty, Bombardier and Pektron
This programme has currently been accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE)
Benefit from high-quality teaching which will keep you up to date with latest developments in everything from e-manufacturing to robotics
Tailor your studies to your professional interests, including a major research project on a theme of your choice
Develop your managerial skills to set you up for success in a global industry environment
Drawing on current industry practice, this MSc builds specialist skills in both mechanical and manufacturing engineering to put your career ambitions on a firm footing.
Work towards CEng status
The MSc Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering will develop the skills and knowledge you will need to apply for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng) when you graduate.
Chartered Engineers use a range of fundamental scientific principles to:
Research, develop and apply new technologies
Develop and promote advanced designs and design methods
Introduce new and more efficient production techniques
Initiate marketing and construction concepts
Pioneer new engineering services and management methods
Powerful industry links
Your studies will be underpinned by our excellent industry links with local businesses, including Rolls-Royce, Toyota, Balfour Beatty, Bombardier and Pektron, as well as the Local Enterprise Partnership, D2N2.
We have an Industrial Advisory Panel involving representatives from our partner companies, which means we can keep up to date with current developments in the industry and pass them on to you through our teaching.
Research
Students from this MSc programme have been involved in funded research projects at the Institute for Innovation in Sustainable Engineering (IISE), and Rail Research and Innovation Centre (RRIC) within the College of Science and Engineering covering subjects of high-value manufacturing technologies such as Additive Manufacturing and 3D Printing, composite materials design, simulation, testing, optimisation and application, and circular economy business model and sustainable organisational change design and development.
Tailored to your needs
This course is flexible, so you will have plenty of choice in the specialist subject modules you take and the ways in which you learn.
Some modules are delivered through lectures and tutorials, some online and some in the workplace. You will study both on your own and as part of a group – and your project work will give you crucial experience of working in teams.
Student feedback - Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
100
%
overall satisfaction
100
%
of students agreed that the course is intellectually stimulating
100%
of students agreed that staff are enthusiastic about what they teach
Advanced Composites Research Centre
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
This course is made up of three stages - Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma and MSc.
Postgraduate Certificate
You will study modules such as:
Research Methods: Application and Evaluation
This module will advise, guide and develop you in the various elements that constitute the skills required for identifying and applying appropriate research methods and developing an overall research plan. Your learning will include how to identify, evaluate and apply different research philosophies, research approaches, research strategies, research methods, and methods of data collection and analysis.
Advanced Mechanical Modelling and E-manufacturing
This module is made up of two parts. The first covers modelling techniques and simulations to enable you to evaluate mechanical designs by studying underlying theories and applications of design software. During the second part, you will develop key technical knowledge and an understanding of the concepts of e-manufacturing as well as the ability to critically appraise them. You will also explore relevant Internet technologies.
Forensic Engineering, Failure Analysis and Prevention
Forensic engineering is the study of product, process or design failures and how these relate to international legislation and standards or, in some cases, to legal investigations. During this module, you will review the identification and advanced analysis of a range of failure modes for engineered products. You will critically appraise the design, manufacture and material facets of failed components, which can indicate the sources of failure. You will identify likely causes of failure and strategies for testing out failure mode hypotheses.
By considering misuse or original design flaws, you will review the mechanical analysis for the assessment and reduction of factors that contribute to the onset of failure, such as loading types, materials, manufacturing techniques, and environmental and structural properties. You will predict failure scenarios that include brittle, ductile, fatigue, wear and buckling failure modes. You will also consider design for the prevention of failure of both metallic and non-metallic mechanical products.
Environmental Risk and Responsibility
This module evaluates how the professional actions, decisions and leadership of others interact with the society in which you are working, and how this affects environmental risk and the sustainable future of the planet. Starting with a global view of how environmental stresses are generated by developing technologies, we will take a systemic approach to explore how responsibility for sustainability challenges does not always lie with the decision maker.
Postgraduate Diploma
You will study modules such as:
CPD and Strategic Management
During this module, you will develop your managerial skills in preparation for work in a global industry environment. You will study strategic concepts and learn how to transfer them into your own industry or specialism using a structured approach. You will focus on managing the global future by analysis rather than by instinct and will become adept at forecasting and financial analysis, while considering business ethics. The Continuing Professional Development (CPD) element of this module means that you will be able to contextualise and concentrate your studies in your own discipline to improve your employability.
Advanced Mechanical Design and Manufacturing Engineering
An integrated design, material and manufacturing approach provides one of the key enabling capabilities needed in effectively evaluating specific areas of initial concept development and in performing detail engineering design and analysis throughout a product development cycle. This integrated engineering approach incorporates the infrastructure and design and analysis formats and tools that can be exercised in a concurrent nature and provides benefits from a standpoint of producing a better design, faster results, lower cost uncertainties and reduced risk.
Robotics and Manufacturing Control Systems
You will explore the area of industrial robotics and their control. Industrial robots play an increasingly significant role in manufacturing automation. Consequently, an understanding of their hardware, software and integration design are key to the use of such technologies in industry automation. You will also study the use of programmable logic controllers (PLCs) in robot integration applications as a user-friendly control unit to enhance the capability of the industry robot application.
Negotiated Module
You will carry out a professional development audit, develop your learning contract, and identify specific aspects of technical study in your given specialism that may complement or extend your academic studies at masters level. This will help your application for Chartered Engineering status. This module will be taught through work-based learning and you will negotiate your area of study with the module leader.
MSc
You will study one module, such as:
Independent Scholarship
This triple module is an integral and substantial part of your masters degree. It enables you to use and enhance the knowledge and intellectual skills you have gained during the course through an extensive investigation of a proposed postgraduate study related to the course material. You will produce a coherent, sustained and comprehensive research study to demonstrate your ability to generate complex proposals with an awareness of current issues and insights as well as originality in the application of subject knowledge. Where appropriate, you will propose new hypotheses and speculations. You will be challenged to demonstrate a critical understanding of how the boundaries of knowledge are advanced through research in the production of clear, logically argued and original work related to your field of study.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
We have excellent industry links with local businesses including Rolls-Royce, Toyota, Balfour Beatty, Bombardier, Pektron and the Local Enterprise Partnership, D2N2, which will enrich your learning. Assessment is through a mixture of coursework and examination as appropriate.
Who will teach you
Dr Jilin Ye
Programme Leader
Dr Jilin Ye
Prior to joining the University of Derby as a Senior Lecturer in Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering, Jilin spent a couple of years in research positions at Loughborough University and the University of Warwick.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You will normally need an appropriate engineering or science undergraduate degree (2:2 or above), or an equivalent professional qualification, or significant industrial or professional experience following your initial qualification.
If English is not your first language, you will also need an IELTS score of 6.5 or the equivalent.
International applicants
This course requires an ATAS (Academic Technology Approval Scheme) certificate. As part of the programme, you will learn to research, develop and apply new technologies, develop and promote advanced designs and design methods, introduce new and more efficient production techniques, initiate marketing and construction concepts, and pioneer new engineering services and management methods.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,000 for the full course or £1,000 per 20 credits*
£1,000 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course or £1,055 per 20 credits*
£1,055 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Free student membership of relevant professional accreditation body
Some essential educational software packages will be provided free
Use of resources such as computer rooms, workshops and laboratories
Use of PPE kits in workshops as and when required, such as safety boots, safety googles and ear plugs
Talks from expert industry speakers
£150 maximum allowance for master's project
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Additional Educational Software, approximately £100
Computer Accessories, approximately £30
Workshop material, approximately £100
Additional Industry visits, approximately £40
Additional expenses for master's project, approximately £50
Printing, approximately £80
Optional costs not included in your fees
Personal computer or tablet computer approx. £500
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
When you graduate, you will be fully equipped to apply current technology to a variety of areas in mechanical and manufacturing engineering. You will have the skills and knowledge to enhance your earning potential and to move into a responsible job in the sector.
Career opportunities open to graduates include:
Mechanical Engineer
Manufacturing Engineer
Application Engineer
Production Engineer
Team Manager
Employers our graduates have gone on to work for include:
Rolls Royce
Bombardier
Atkins
Manufacturing Technology Centre (MTC)
Gardner Aerospace
Cullum Detuners
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Strategic Engineering Management MSc
Control and Instrumentation MSc