Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/mechanical-manufacturing-engineering-courses/mechanical-manufacturing-engineering-beng-hons-top-up/

Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering (Top-Up) BEng (Hons) - Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering (Top-Up) BEng (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering (Top-Up)
BEng (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS code
H2TU
Start date
September
This top-up programme equips you with a solid background and appropriate skills that would enable you to practice successfully as a professional engineer. It incorporates elements of all relevant technologies and their applications throughout the programme. You’ll complete modules suited to either Mechanical Engineering or Manufacturing Engineering.
You'll have access to excellent labs and facilities whilst studying this degree. Spaces include our Additive Manufacturing Lab with various 3D printed technology, wind tunnel and thermodynamics area that includes a jet engine and test engine, and our mechanical workshop with both traditional lathes and milling machines, alongside more modern CNC equipment
You’ll gain key employability skills, such as practical skills, problem solving, awareness of current and developing engineering and strategic issues, together with transferrable skills, such as presentation skills, team work and technical/management writing
Learn from our expert team of academic staff who have extensive industrial experience of engineering
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering (Top-up) at Derby
On the Mechanical Engineering route, you’ll cover key topics including engineering design modelling, computational fluid dynamics and materials and applications. On the Manufacturing Engineering route, you’ll cover engineering materials and applications, manufacturing automation and control, and technology and systems. Both routes explore the processes involved with innovating in organisations, as well as the ethical and environmental standards. You’ll also work on a project in an area that interests you.
This programme is currently going through the process of accreditation with the IMechE so that it is recognised as the Further Learning required for professional registration as an Incorporated Engineer (IEng). This top-up programme is designed to provide specific skills and knowledge for a career within the mechanical and manufacturing engineering sectors. The programme is designed to maintain and manage applications of current and developing technology, and to undertake engineering design, development, manufacture, construction and operation. Offered under the umbrella of Mechanical Engineering, the BEng (Hons) Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering top-up programme will, therefore, offer an IEng accredited degree pathway in mechanical and manufacturing engineering.
Current roles within the engineering industries are extremely technologically challenging with ever-increasing paces of change and development, and the larger industries predominantly now operate on a global scale. You must be able to meet the challenges presented by the constant search for improvement and the relentless pace of development that characterise these industries. Additionally, the development of your management skills throughout the programme plays an important part in your educational process.
On completion of this programme, you will be able to analyse, synthesise and evaluate those engineering factors that are required to produce engineering solutions. You will explore the themes of:
Use of general and specialist engineering knowledge and understanding
Application of appropriate theoretical and practical methods to appropriate application
Technical and commercial leadership and management at all levels
Effective interpersonal and communication skills using various media means and resources
Commitment to professional standards and recognition of obligations to society and environment in accordance with the latest benchmarks
Top
10
in the UK for student satisfaction
Manufacturing and Product Engineering subject area - The Complete University Guide 2024
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Real world learning
There’s a mixture of lectures, research projects, seminars and workshops as well as industrial visits and guest lectures from the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE).
How you are assessed
We use a range of assessment methods, including assignments, examinations, formal technical reports, practical results, short written observations and spoken presentations.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Martin Sole
Programme Leader
Martin Sole
Martin is a Senior Lecturer in Mechanical/Aerospace Engineering and Programme Leader for the Mechanical, Electrical, and Motorsport Programmes.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You need to have an HND or Foundation degree in a relevant subject.
When you apply, please send us a transcript of the modules you have already studied so that we can make sure that the HND or foundation degree is compatible with the top-up programme.
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.5 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Free student membership of relevant professional accreditation body
Some essential educational software packages will be provided free
Use of resources such as computer rooms, workshops and laboratories
Use of PPE kits in workshops as and when required, such as safety boots, safety googles and ear plugs
Talks from expert industry speakers
Small allowance for final year project
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Additional Educational Software approx. £100
Computer Accessories approx. £50
Workshop material approx. £100
Additional Industry visits approx. £50
Additional expenses for final year project approx. £50
Optional costs not included in your fees
Personal computer or tablet computer approx. £500
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
On completion of this top-up degree, you will have a solid background and appropriate skills that would enable you to practice successfully as a professional engineer. You will be able to analyse, synthesise and evaluate the engineering factors that are required to produce engineering solutions. You’ll also develop management skills which can take you into many sectors. To further your learning, you could study our
MSc Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Other courses you might like
Mechanical Engineering BEng (Hons)