Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/mechanical-manufacturing-engineering-courses/mechanical-engineering-beng-hons-foundation/

Mechanical Engineering with Foundation Year BEng (Hons) - Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Mechanical Engineering with Foundation Year BEng (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Mechanical Engineering with Foundation Year
BEng (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: Four years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
H301
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
Our Mechanical Engineering graduates can look forward to excellent future prospects. Offering high-quality teaching and plenty of practical experience – and in an ideal location with world-famous companies on our doorstep – the BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering will give you the edge in your career.
Not sure on the type of engineering you want to study? Spend the foundation year and year one of the degree covering all aspects of engineering and gain the multi-disciplinary skills and knowledge that employers are looking for
In year two, you have the option to switch your degree to either
BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering
or
BEng (Hons) Motorsport Engineering
or continue studying on BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering
Our
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering
degree is professionally accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers on behalf of the Engineering Council – this recognition means you can be sure our courses meet professional standards
Enjoy invaluable professional insights by taking an optional placement year between stages two and three of your studies
Develop hands-on skills in solving real-world engineering problems
Challenge yourself with exciting extra-curricular projects such as the
IMechE Design Challenge
and the
British Model Flying Association Payload Challenge
Broaden your perspectives through industrial visits and guest lectures by leading professionals
Learn from our expert team of academic staff who have extensive industrial experience in engineering
Top
20
for satisfaction with feedback
Mechanical Engineering subject area, The Guardian University Guide 2025
Top
15
for assessment and feedback
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering, National Student Survey 2024
100
%
of students agreed that staff made the subject engaging
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering - National Student Survey 2024
97
%
of students were satisfied with academic support
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering - National Student Survey 2024
95
%
of students were satisfied with teaching on the course
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering - National Student Survey 2024
Meeting the needs of the industry and you
Engineering is such a broad discipline, and you may not fully know which area of engineering is the right choice to study when beginning your studies.
Employers are increasingly seeking engineers with a broader knowledge of mechanical and electrical engineering to meet their environmental, consumer and business needs. As a University based in an advanced engineering city, it’s vital that we offer degrees with a strong focus on sustainability, electrification and automation.
With this in mind, we have developed our degrees to match the multi-disciplinary requirements that employers are shouting for. All engineering students will take the same core modules in the first year to gain an essential foundation in all aspects of engineering, giving you the chance to settle into your studies, and allowing you time to decide which area suits you best. At the end of your first year, you’ll have the opportunity to switch to either our
BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering
or
BEng (Hons) Motorsport Engineering
degree should you realise your passion falls within this area, or you can continue on BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering.
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
In-depth understanding
From computer aided design to structural analysis, vibration and dynamics to thermofluids, the BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering covers a broad spectrum of themes to put your career plans on a firm footing.
The course features a wide range of specialist modules such as Computational Fluid Dynamics, Advanced Material Design and Analysis, and Advanced Thermodynamics. You'll gain essential skills to solve problems such as how to read technical drawings and use 3D modelling software. Your existing mathematics knowledge will be built on for practical application within a mechanical engineering context.
You'll undertake an individual project which entails real experience of solving an engineering problem in industry. Prospective employers often regard this project as an excellent way to assess the skills of potential future employees.
Industry experience to set you apart
By choosing to spend a year on an optional industry placement, you can give yourself a real career advantage. The industrial year takes place between the second and final stages of your degree and you will find there is a significant number of SMEs, large, national and international companies looking for placement students each year.
We offer a full range of support to students who are keen to enhance their employability through internships and placements while studying. For more information, please get in touch with our Careers and Employment Service.
Use excellent facilities
You’ll have access to excellent labs and facilities whilst studying the degree. These include:
Additive manufacturing lab:
A technician supported facility, this lab is equipped with various 3D printed technology including fused-deposition modelling, stereolithography and polymer
Manufacturing automation:
This lab is equipped with programmable logic controllers, pneumatics and a smart factory. The equipment enables teaching centred on the fundamentals of both pneumatic and electro-pneumatic circuits
Materials testing lab:
This teaching space is where you will explore material properties, testing and measuring the characteristics and behaviour of materials. Equipment includes a hardness testing machine and optical and digital microscopes which allow 3D image reconstruction and measurement
Dynamic testing lab:
This specialist space supports further research in material testing. The room is equipped with fatigue and impact testing equipment
Wind Tunnel and Thermodynamics:
A practical area which includes a wind tunnel where you’ll test the aerodynamics of objects, and a jet engine where you can control and test its performance
Mechanical workshop:
Equipped with both traditional lathes and milling machines, alongside more modern Computerised Numerical Control (CNC) equipment
You'll also have access to our Makerspace. It’s a creative space where you can work on any project and turn your ideas into a prototype. All students across the University can use this space and it is a fantastic way of sharing knowledge and skills with one another. Equipment in the Makerspace includes a laser cutter, 3D printers, soldering irons, CNC machines and more.
Your teaching team
The teaching team has a wide range of experience across a variety of sectors which they bring into their teaching and research. They include:
Martin Sole:
Martin has 30 years of experience in the aerospace and automotive sectors, having been a Service Engineer travelling throughout Europe, Mexico, India and Russia
John Thorley:
John has 25 years of experience in a variety of management and improvement roles in sectors including aerospace, food, power and automotive
Dr Yiling Lu:
Yiling carries out research in mechanical engineering with main applications in bio-engineering. He teaches on a range of modules including Computer Simulation and Engineering Design
Dr Jianfei Xie:
Jianfei teaches and has a research interest in the area of fluid dynamics, particularly in the aerodynamics and structures of aeroplanes
Professor Zhiyin Yang:
Zhiyin is a Professor of Aerospace Engineering at the University. He conducts world-leading research and has published over 100 scientific papers. His teaching covers Thermofluids advanced computational fluid dynamics
Industry focused
The future is zero carbon. As a University based in an advanced engineering city, it’s important that we offer degrees with a strong focus on sustainability, electrification and automation. With this in mind, we have developed our degrees to match the multi-disciplinary requirements businesses are shouting for.
World-famous companies, including Rolls-Royce, Alstom and Toyota, are right on the University’s doorstep. Our close links with these companies offer opportunities ranging from placements to extra-curricular activities. And as a BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering graduate, you will be ideally placed to make the most of many career opportunities in the city.
Challenge yourself
We offer inspiring opportunities for you to take part in high-profile events such as the British Model Flying Association Payload Challenge, which is supported by BAE Systems and the Royal Aeronautical Society. The aim is to design, build, test and compete a radio-controlled aircraft against other national and international teams.
Our students have also recently taken part in the IMechE Railway Challenge in collaboration with Alstom. During the competition they won both the autostop and refuelability challenge and were delighted to secure third place overall.
Anselm Won, student team leader stated
"What I enjoyed during the challenge was being a part of the team and the communication between the team members, the atmosphere was always bright, we were able to joke around and have fun whilst working together for the challenge, especially the celebratory reactions we had when we fixed problems on the loco."
Sorria is a first-class engineering pioneer
Mechanical Engineering graduate Sorria Douglas is getting used to firsts. She achieved a first-class honours degree with us and she is now a Design Engineer with Nottingham-based L.A.C. Conveyors & Automation, the first female engineer at the company.
Read Sorria's story
Read Sorria's story
Student Showcase 2022
We're showcasing the work of some of our talented Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering students to celebrate their achievements over the 2021-22 academic year.
View the Student Showcase
View the Student Showcase
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You will be assessed using a mixture of coursework assessment, examinations and professional presentations.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Marzena Pawlik
Programme Leader
Marzena Pawlik
Marzena is a lecturer in Mechanical Engineering. She completed her PhD in 2019 in Mechanical Engineering.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Free student membership of relevant professional accreditation body
Some essential educational software packages will be provided free
Use of resources such as computer rooms, workshops and laboratories
Use of PPE kits in workshops as and when required, such as safety boots, safety googles and ear plugs
One industrial visit during induction week/first year
Talks from expert industry speakers
Small allowance for final year project
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Additional Educational Software approx. £100
Computer Accessories approx. £50
Workshop material approx. £100
Additional Industry visits approx. £50
Additional expenses for final year project approx. £50
Optional costs not included in your fees
Personal computer or tablet computer approx. £500
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Engineering is a part of so many different industries, and completing an engineering degree will give you access to a wide range of opportunities. This course prepares you for careers at the cutting edge of mechanical engineering design, motorsport or automotive design and the applications of advanced materials. You could move into roles in design, production or manufacturing in a variety of industries including aerospace, automotive and rail.
You could also take your studies to postgraduate level with our
MSc Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
or
MSc Strategic Engineering Management.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering (Top-Up) BEng (Hons)
Mechanical Engineering BEng (Hons)
Manufacturing and Production Engineering (Top-Up) BEng (Hons)
Engineering Management (Top-Up) BEng (Hons)