Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/joint-honours-courses/media-and-english-ba-hons/

Media and English BA (Hons) - Joint Honours - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Joint Honours
Media and English BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Media and English
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
P3Q3
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road and Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
English at Derby is an exciting, diverse and challenging course that not only incorporates the close analysis of literature but also considers the situations in which literature is produced and read. This means your studies will include the intellectual and cultural history of art, film, philosophy, linguistics and sociology, as well as contemporary cultural politics. You will be introduced to a range of cultural expression from across the globe and from diverse historical periods.
There is the opportunity to broaden your experience with work-based learning projects, study visits to cultural and heritage institutions, as well as lectures and seminars delivered by guest speakers. You’ll learn from tutors that are highly experienced in the communications industry and well-connected, having worked in online and broadcast roles for organisations like the BBC, ITV News, and other media outlets.
Bringing industry to the classroom
The first year of your degree offers an introductory overview of key media and communications knowledge and skills such as writing, podcasting and basic video production skills. In your second year, you'll choose to focus on PR skills, script writing or develop your audio skills further. In your final year, you'll have the opportunity to work on a long-term project for a media organisation.
The PR modules give you the chance to join our student-run communications agency where you'll get real-life experience of working for real clients to help them solve their media and communication issues.
Inspirational teaching
You will be taught by an enthusiastic team with research expertise covering a broad range of areas in both literature and language. We place emphasis on discussion and active engagement with the material. We aim to challenge you to achieve your best and offer substantial tutorial support in addition to scheduled classes.
Facilities
Our facilities feature three radio studios, a fully equipped television studio, video editing suites, Mac suites and access to Adobe Creative Suite. All of this means you’ll be confident using industry-standard technology, giving you an advantage when you're looking for a job.
Choose your pathway
Studying a Media and English Joint Honours degree allows you to choose whether you major in one subject or study them both equally.
You begin this degree by studying both subjects equally in your first year. By the end of your first year, you will then decide whether you would like to major or minor in a chosen subject or continue to study them both equally.
Bachelor of Arts (Honours) Media and English
In this pathway, you study
Media
and
English
equally.
Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Media with English
In this pathway, Media is the major subject and English is the minor subject.
Bachelor of Arts (Hons) in English with Media
In this pathway,
English
is the major subject and
Media
is the minor subject.
The course was perfect for me as it allowed me to engage in high level intellectual study that sets me apart from other applicants. It developed my research, reading, presentation and teaching skills.
Charlie Pidcock
English student
What is a Joint Honours degree?
A Joint Honours degree offers students the opportunity to study two subjects.
A Joint Honours degree is a great option if:
You want to study two subjects you’re passionate about
You’ve got a specific career in mind and want to create a tailored degree to prepare you for the future
You want to study a new subject alongside one you’re already familiar with
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Our tutors use a varied approach to teaching which engaging and interactive. You'll get to hear the latest insights and get advice from industry guest speakers and start to build your contacts.
You will learn in a variety of ways, including through:
Workshops
News days
Work experience/real projects for employers
Lectures and seminars, including guest lectures from key industry figures
Fieldtrips
With your English modules you’ll learn through a mixture of:
Lectures, seminars and tutorials
Project work
Technology-enhanced learning
Peer reviews and presentations
We also arrange visits to literary festivals, local and national museums, cultural heritage sites and other areas of interest.
How you are assessed
Our assessment strategy is designed to produce confident, articulate graduates with a broad set of skills. There are no exams and forms of assessment include seminar debates, group presentations, practice-based video work and conference papers alongside essays and longer research projects. We place great emphasis on developing your research skills with independent projects playing a key part in the second and third year of the course.
Who will teach you
You will be taught by our team of engaging, passionate and inspiring subject experts.
Media:
Gurvinder Aujla-Sidhu
English:
Dr Robin Sims
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Gurvinder Aujla-Sidhu
Programme Leader
Dr Gurvinder Aujla-Sidhu
Gurvinder Aujla-Sidhu is an Associate Professor and Head of Discipline in Journalism at the University of Derby. Her research focuses on diversity, inclusion and race in journalism practice and representation, radio, diaspora, and ethn...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Your course fee includes any mandatory study visits and some social events
The programme uses Adobe Creative Suite which is installed on all Macs in MS102 and MS012 at Markeaton Street and students are provided with an individual Adobe Creative Cloud subscription for home use
To support their professional and skills development, students are provided with a subscription to LinkedIn Learning which offers over 13,000 courses and tutorials, including professional accreditations, in a wide range of creative, business & technology disciplines
Optional costs not included in your fees
Some social events
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
We will provide you with the skills to critically engage with the world in which you live as well as developing your understanding of cultural difference and of the capacity of language to produce unintended effects and meanings. This awareness is hugely valuable to employers.
You’ll be well-suited to roles in politics, content creation, marketing, communications/PR, social media, the wider creative industries, as well as law and public administration. In fact, the research and media communication skills you'll graduate with are transferable to a huge variety of graduate level jobs.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
You will typically study your two subjects equally at stage one, before choosing whether you want to major in one subject at stages two and three.
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
This is a new course so the data displayed via Discover Uni is for students studying in another subject area.
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Creative Writing and Publishing BA (Hons)
English BA (Hons)
Film and High-end Television Production BA (Hons)
Journalism
Media and Communication BA (Hons)