Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/radiography-courses/medical-ultrasound-msc/

Medical Ultrasound MSc - Radiography - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Radiography
Medical Ultrasound MSc
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Medical Ultrasound
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 2 years,  Part-time: 3 to 5 years
UK fee
£11,340 per year of study or £1,260 per 20 credits*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 per year of study
(2024/25)
Start date
September
†
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
This is a challenging, yet rewarding programme of study offering you the opportunity to develop the high level skills required of an autonomous ultrasound practitioner
We offer a highly flexible part-time pathway that will appeal to a wide range of health care professionals who wish to develop ultrasound skills as an extension of their scope of practice
You can choose to study our innovative full-time, fast-track pathway designed for science and health related graduates wishing to explore a career in this exciting and rapidly expanding area of diagnostic imaging. Our fast track students will gain an MSc in just two years
You’ll receive high quality teaching from friendly, supportive and enthusiastic staff, who are clinically and research active
You’ll engage in practice based learning in a clinical environment with expert mentor support
Ultrasound is an essential tool in medical diagnosis. In recent years demand has grown beyond all expectations. This has resulted in expansion of the modality both in imaging departments and point of care clinical settings.
To meet this demand we have created our MSc Ultrasound to offer you the opportunity to train in general or very focused ultrasound applications. You’ll be taught in our modern Clinical Skills Suite by some of the area’s leading experts in this field and using state of the art simulation systems.
The course is modular, offering both full-time and part-time enrolment options to help you fit your professional development into your lifestyle. Our part-time pathway is flexible in its design, delivery and assessment to help you meet the demands of work and family commitments. A broad range of negotiated modules allow you to put together a programme of study that meets your individual learning needs, supporting your individual career aspirations.
We welcome applicants from a diverse range of graduate backgrounds. It’s the perfect opportunity for graduates with an interest in ultrasound to train in a field which is in high demand.
You must have access to a clinical ultrasound placement for a minimum of two days per week. For full-time students only, placements are provided with partner NHS Trusts (whilst we will always consider your placement preference, please note that a specific placement location cannot be guaranteed). Please note that if you are a part-time student you will need to source a placement independently.
Professionally accredited
Accredited by the Consortium for the Accreditation of Sonographic Education (CASE), this programme delivers high-quality sonographic education at an appropriate level to ensure trainees are competent and able to practice professionally within the sonographic field. Students undertaking a CASE accredited Medical Ultrasound programme will know that high quality education and training is being delivered against set standards.
96
%
of students agree they are satisfied with the quality of their course
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
Studying part-time
Stage one
To complete stage one you will study 60 credits. You will complete this 20 credit module:
Principles of Medical Ultrasound
This module introduces the underpinning physics and technology of ultrasound imaging.
And then you will choose two 20 credit option modules. At least one of these must be a clinical ultrasound module.
Stage two
You will study a further 60 credits. At least 20 must be a clinical ultrasound module and the remaining 40 credits can be from the clinical ultrasound or generic modules.
Stage three
Complete your MSc with a further 60 credits in stage three. You will study the Independent Scholarship (40/60 credits).
Optional modules
Choose from clinical ultrasound modules such as:
Obstetric Ultrasound (40 credits)
Ultrasound in Early Pregnancy Assessment (20 credits)
Gynaecology Ultrasound (20 credits)
General Medical Ultrasound (40 credits)
Vascular Ultrasound (40 credits)
Negotiated Musculoskeletal Ultrasound 1 (20 credits)
Negotiated Musculoskeletal Ultrasound 2 (20 credits)
Focused Specialist Ultrasound Practice 1 (20 credits)
Focused Specialist Ultrasound Practice 2 (20 credits)
Head and Neck Ultrasound (20 credits)
Focused Interventional Ultrasound (20 credits)
Choose from generic modules such as:
Advancing Practice (20 credits)
Advancing Communication Skills (20 credits)
Advanced Technology (20 credits)
Research Skills for Evidence Based Practice (20 credits)
Research Methodologies - Application to Advanced Practice (20 credits)
Work Based Learning - Negotiated (20 credits).
Studying full-time
Study full-time and complete 120 credits over two years of study from the choices above. The 20 credit research module (Research Skills for Evidence Based Practice) and 40 credit Independent Scholarship module will span across the full two year programme with submission of the final dissertation at the end of the summer semester in year two. This will complete your MSc.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You will learn through group activities, lectures, practical work, seminars, self-directed study and simulation activities.
Practical ‘hands-on’ skills development will be supported by access to a state of the art ultrasound simulation suite and a fully equipped ultrasound room in our Clinical Skills Suite.
Have a look at the
specialist facilities
you’ll use throughout the course.
Work placement
If you are studying part-time, you must have access to a clinical ultrasound placement for a minimum of two days per week. Please note that if you are a part-time student you will need to source a placement independently.
For full-time students only, placements are provided with partner NHS Trusts. (Whilst we will always consider your placement preference, please note that a specific placement location cannot be guaranteed).
Placement hours are subject to change.
How you'll be assessed
A range of assessment methods are used to ensure that all intended learning outcomes are met. These include written assignments, unseen examinations, computer-based assessments, formative and summative clinical assessment and image viewing examinations. All assessments are linked explicitly with real-world tasks that would be expected of an autonomous ultrasound practitioner.
Entry requirements
Normally, you must:
hold a science OR health related degree at 2:1 or above
have English language skills equivalent to IELTS level 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each skill area)
However, if you don’t hold a 2:1 degree, but you do possess relevant experience, are highly motivated and possess the attributes and values we look for in a health care professional such as care, compassion, competence, communication, courage, commitment, respect, empathy, honesty, self-awareness, integrity and cultural awareness, please get in touch.
The selection process (for full time applicants only) is likely to include:
An individual interview
A presentation by academics about the course
Interview information
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£11,340 per year of study or £1,260 per 20 credits*
£1,260 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 per year of study
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Available for full-time students only:
Uniforms
Name badges and ID holders
Ultrasound Techniques digital resources
DBS Check
Health Screening and vaccinations
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Suitable footwear for skills sessions and placements approx. £40
Optional costs not included in your fees
Theatre Shoes approx. £20
Text books to supplement anything available through the library various prices depending on content
Printing costs of course materials if hard copy is desired approx. 5p per sheet
Attendance at conferences such as the British Medical Ultrasound Society
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
This course is currently open to applications for part-time study only.
Apply directly to the University
International students
This course is currently open to applications for part-time study only.
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
On successful completion of all core and mandatory elements, you will be able to provide evidence of preparation for practice to the standards required for a first post-qualification sonographer post. We’ve consulted with key service partners who have confirmed that this would allow appointment of graduates in most regional NHS contexts. However, applicants from a non-health care background should note that, at present, employment in some NHS Trusts would not be possible due to the requirement for professional registration. These potential restrictions on employment will be discussed with you during the application process and you will be asked to sign a memorandum of agreement confirming your understanding and acceptance.
At present, sonography is not a registerable health care profession. On successful completion of the full MSc in Medical Ultrasound, graduate entrants (who do not hold an existing registerable qualification) will not be eligible for HCPC registration. However, in collaboration with CASE and the Society and College of Radiographers, this course has been mapped closely against existing HCPC standards of proficiency for diagnostic imaging.
On completion of the MSc you will be able to apply for registration through the Professional Standards Authority with The Register of Clinical Technologists. Details of the application process can be found on their
website
.
UK CASE accredited ultrasound awards are recognised both nationally and internationally. Whilst developing the course we have worked closely with regional and national stakeholders to ensure that when you graduate you will be well prepared to work as an autonomous ultrasound practitioner within your speciality.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
† Additional information about your studies
September (MSc Ultrasound)
April and January for some CPD modules. Individuals must hold a recognised Ultrasound qualification.
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.