Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/midwifery-courses/midwifery-bsc-hons/

Midwifery BSc (Hons) - Midwifery - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Midwifery
Midwifery BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Midwifery
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
128
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
B730
Start date
September
Location
Derby Campus
Please note:
this course is not open to International students for September 2025.
Become a competent and compassionate midwife with good communication skills and an understanding of women’s and families' expectations
Gain essential practical experience on a range of clinical placements in different health care settings
Learn from a highly experienced and enthusiastic teaching team who provide full support to help you achieve your ambitions
This degree is designed to meet the
UNICEF UK Baby Friendly standards
*
, the gold-standard for midwifery programmes: and an important quality mark for trusts
Derby has a 70-year track record in providing high quality healthcare education and strong links with the local NHS trusts.
Top
15
for student satisfaction
Nursing and Midwifery subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
92
%
of Students agreed the course is intellectually stimulating
BSc (Hons) Midwifery - National Student Survey 2024
Journey as a student midwife
As a student midwife you will learn the art and science of midwifery. Becoming a midwife is life changing. It's intense, exciting and hugely rewarding. You'll provide skilled, knowledgeable and compassionate care and that's exactly what we'll train you to do on this degree. As a student midwife you will need to demonstrate your passion in learning about the health of the woman and newborn to become and autonomous, accountable, safe practitioner.
Are you ready for the challenge?
The aims of this course are to
develop practitioners who
:
meet the NMC Standards (NMC, 2019) and are eligible to register on the midwifery section of the NMC professional register
can transfer and synthesise skills and knowledge to meet the demands of differing practice environments and who recognise both the accountability and responsibilities of the midwife’s role
have the knowledge, understanding, skills and cultural competence which ensure care is co-ordinated and tailored to individual women and
new-born
infants across diverse settings.
Midwives work through many stages of the mother's journey: pre-pregnancy, pregnancy, labour and birth, postpartum (after childbirth), and the early days of the
new-born’s
life. You will support women's wellbeing, future reproductive health,
and
their transition to parenthood.
You'll work in partnership with women, enabling and empowering their views, preferences and decisions. As a midwife, you will make a vital contribution to the quality
and safety of maternity care.
Learning alongside other healthcare practitioners
Midwives provide care in many complex, varying situations and you'll always be working with a range of healthcare professionals to promote the best interests of a mother and her baby. This may include GPs, obstetricians, paediatricians, nurses, theatre staff, health visitors, social workers and many more. You will be ideally placed to recognise and act on any physical or psychological changes in the mother, baby or the wider family, and this will usually require you to refer your concerns to other specialist colleagues.
To prepare you for this, we provide many inter-professional learning opportunities throughout the programme. This might include learning with other healthcare students, particularly for topics like safeguarding, leadership and change management, as well as working alongside practitioners during your placements.
Midwifery - your questions answered!
In the below video, Senior Lecturer, Debbie Watkinson, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Midwifery at the University of Derby.
View Midwifery - your questions answered!  video transcript
Placements
50% of the course is made up of practical placements, so you'll develop essential clinical skills and gain a genuine feel for the practicalities and demands of the profession. This clinical experience is mandatory for registration with the NMC. These placements could be in the community, on antenatal and postnatal wards, in day assessment units, labour wards, and birth centres. There are also opportunities to gain experience in other settings to expand your experience.
You'll be allocated to a local trust where you will follow a rotation between areas in both maternity and other healthcare settings, and allocated a practice supervisor and assessor who will help you complete your competencies. Placement hours are subject to change.
Evidence-based practice
This course has been designed to encourage you to think critically and apply evidence to underpin your clinical practice. The course will provide you with a wide knowledge base and is underpinned by national policy. When you graduate you will be confident in using an evidence-based approach to support your decision making in complex mental, physical, cognitive and behavioural situations.
First-class facilities
We offer outstanding learning environments including Clinical Skills Suites built to professional standards with replica wards, counselling rooms and treatment rooms that are fully equipped with the latest clinical resources. Our specialist midwifery equipment includes a birthing pool, birthing beds, birthing stools and birthing balls, as well as model abdomens, pelvises and breasts.
Active research
We have many researchers who active in furthering midwifery research, working hard to advance knowledge in different areas of healthcare and the human sciences. Here are some recent research studies they have conducted, which you may find interesting:
biomedical scientists are examining
how air pollution could affect the growth of the placenta
the Birth Project
used the arts to explore the impact of birth, not only on new mothers but on obstetricians, midwives, doulas and birth-partners
a qualitative study looked at the experiences of mothers who
breastfed beyond infancy
and the support provided by healthcare professionals.
In particular, our
Health and Social Care Research Centre
spearheads a range of projects aimed at building healthy, sustainable communities. It's a collaboration between the University of Derby, NHS England and the four Clinical Commissioning Committees across Derbyshire.
Financial support to help you succeed
Don’t let financial concerns get in the way of your ambitions. You will be able to access a funding package made up of tuition fee loans and support for your living costs.
You won’t have to pay any money upfront; tuition and living cost loans work just like a tax on your earnings rather than a commercial or payday loan. You will only start paying back the loans when you are earning above £27,295 per year and you will then pay 9% of any income above £27,295.
You can also secure grants — which do not have to be repaid — to cover childcare and the costs of travelling to your placement.
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
This midwifery degree includes 50% theory and 50% practice. Through our own clinical facilities, and through your placements with trusts, you will gain 2,300 hours of practical experience in the antenatal, intrapartum and postnatal periods, as well as in the care of the newborn baby. You will also gain 2,300 hours of theoretical knowledge.
For the theoretical aspects of the course, you will receive face-to-face and online teaching, as well as studying independently. To meet your practice requirements, you will need to keep an up-to-date ongoing record of achievement.
The Newborn Infant Physical Examination is taught in this course. This is part of a screening programme which screens babies within 72 hours of birth, and students will complete this qualification.
How you're assessed
We assess you in various ways depending on the module, such as by:
written assignments
oral examinations (VIVAs)
objective structured clinical examinations (OSCE)
written examinations, and
case studies
Who you'll meet
Our teaching team is made up of registered midwives who have worked across all areas of maternity care.
Jayne Leverton
- Programme Leader
Annabelle Griffiths
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Jayne  Leverton
Programme Leader
Jayne  Leverton
Jayne joined the University as the Lead Midwife for Education and Senior Lecturer of Midwifery in April 2020. She has worked in many specialist areas within midwifery, the majority of her time at Derby was as matron in the inpatie...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
128
A Level
ABB (At least a grade B in either Biology, Human biology, Physics, Chemistry or Psychology)
T Level
Distinction *must include a Science related subject.
BTEC
DDM. Must include a Science-related subject in either Biology, Human Biology, Physics, Chemistry or Psychology. BTEC Extended Diploma in Health & Social Care must include Science modules.
GCSE
Maths, English and Science at Grade 4/C (or above.) Please note we do NOT accept GCSE Short Courses or GCSE Equivalence Tests from other institutions or organisations.
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 24, Merit: 21, Pass: 0. This must include 15 L3 credits at Merit in a Science related subject in either Biology, Human Biology, Physics, Chemistry or Psychology.
*The University will accept the Senior Healthcare Support Worker Apprenticeship (maternity route only) in lieu of UCAS points or level 3 qualification requirements.
Health or care experience to demonstrate an insight into the professional values and behaviours associated with health and care environments is required. It is essential for student midwives to be able to communicate effectively with women, their families and the multidisciplinary team.
Please note that admissions for the course is conducted on a gathered field basis. To find out more about the definition and process of a gathered field please see our
Gathered Field Policy
.
If you do not meet the entry requirements for this course, you may be considered for our
BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing
course. Studying the BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing course will provide you with an understanding of compassionate care of mothers and can pave the way towards postgraduate study to enable you to register on the midwifery section of the NMC. Our admissions team will get in touch with you should this option be available to you after your interview. You can study BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing at our Derby or Chesterfield site, starting in either March or September.
Additional entry requirements
Interview: Yes
view interview details
An
Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service certificate
cleared by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this once you have applied
An
Occupational Health Assessment
and Clearance by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this when required
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
N/A
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Travel and accommodation expenses associated with placements are to be met
Travel will be reimbursed if it exceeds travel to and from the University campus base
Uniforms
Name badges and ID holders
Enhanced DBS Check
Occupational Health Check
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Textbooks for skills sessions and placements approx. £40
Suitable shoes that comply with uniform policy approx. £40
Travel to and from the University campus base
Optional costs not included in your fees
Travel to elective placement in year three if the student chooses to go out of usual placement locations
Textbooks to supplement anything available through the library various prices depending on the content
Printing costs of course materials if a hard copy is desired approx. 5p per sheet
Students may opt to engage in international trips and activities that are not fully funded, though bursaries may be available
Optional outings and trips will also require self-funding
Professional NMC membership required to practice
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Due to the popularity of this course, and to ensure that each applicant is treated fairly, admissions to this course will be assessed via a gathered field approach. This means that we will let successful candidates know if they have been successful after all interviews have taken place. This course will close on Wednesday 29 January 2025 and interview outcomes will be sent together after the last interview dates in April.
Learn more about our Gathered Field Policy
Careers
This BSc (Hons) Midwifery provides all the theoretical and practical elements you need to meet the NMC standards and be eligible for registration on the midwifery section of the NMC professional register. It will help you to start a new and
highly-rewarding
career, as a competent, confident and autonomous midwife, who is capable of making a real, positive difference to the lives of women and their
new-born
infants, partners and families.
Once you have graduated and are on the register, you should be able to get an NHS position as a Registered (Graduate) Midwife (NHS Band 5)
which will progress to band 6 following successful completion of the trust preceptorship programme.
This qualification is also recognised in Europe, as well as other countries, so you could look for a midwife position overseas.
Midwives can work in the trust obstetric maternity unit, midwife led unit or in the community. Midwives may specialise in roles such as a diabetes specialist midwife, bereavement services, vulnerable women or safeguarding.
After several years, you could progress to be a ward
-
based manager, specialist midwife, researcher or lecturer.
This is a new
course
so we don't
yet
have employment rates of previous graduates to provide
. H
owever
,
similar programmes, such as Nursing, have had exceptional employment rates: up to 95% of graduates being in further study or work six months after they completed their course
.
Finding my voice as a future midwife
Midwifery student Kayty Richards is President of our new Midwifery Society, Midwifery Rocks. She is passionate about caring and advocating for women, the power of kindness, and peer support.
Read Kayty's blog
Read Kayty's blog
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Discover Uni
This is a new course so the data displayed via Discover Uni is for students studying in another subject area.
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Nursing (Adult) BSc (Hons)
Nursing (Children’s) BSc (Hons)
Nursing (Mental Health) BSc (Hons)