Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/mineral-products/minerals-management-bsc-hons-top-up/

BSc (Hons) Minerals Management (Top-Up) - Mineral courses - University of Derby
Study
Mineral courses
BSc (Hons) Minerals Management (Top-Up)
Apply now
Apply now
Professional Course
Minerals Management (Top up) BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Course code
CAAGS
Course credits
120 credits
Next course date
January
Duration
2 years part-time
Location
Enterprise Centre
Course description
Top up your Centre for Mineral Products foundation degree to a full honours degree in Minerals Management
This exciting new part time degree is designed specifically for the mineral products industry to prepare its leaders and managers for the future
It's been developed in partnership with the Institute of Quarrying
It's taught by an expert and experienced team from the industry and the University of Derby
You'll study part time in your own time and at workshops, so you can fit studying around your work and family commitments
This qualification is designed specifically for the mineral products industry to prepare its leaders and managers for the future. You'll study subjects including:
Leadership and operational management
Project management
Financial management
Commercial management and marketing
Extractives management
Lean structures
Quality management
Health, safety and environment management
You'll undertake a work based project which applies everything you learn to an issue in your workplace, so you can make a real impact in your role.
About the Institute of Quarrying
The Institute of Quarrying is the international professional body for quarrying, construction materials and the related extractive and processing industries, with 6,000 members in some 50 countries worldwide. Membership is open to individuals, rather than companies, and the Institute's long-term objective is to promote progressive improvements in all aspects of operational performance through the medium of education and training at supervisory and management level.
The Institute, like the University, believes education and training is a life-long opportunity, which should be viewed, in the broadest terms, starting with initial qualifications gained at college, university or through distance-learning programmes followed by continuing professional development through attendance at conferences, seminars, training courses, competence assessment schemes, workshops, technical meetings, and site visits.
Find out more about membership
of the Institute and how it will benefit you.
Subject modules
Modules
Advanced Extractives Technology - 6ZZBBH - 20 credits
Commercial & Financial Management - 6ZZBBI - 20 credits
Operational Management - 6ZZBBJ - 20 credits
Resource Management - 6ZZBBK - 20 credits
Work Based Project Mineral Ext Tech - 6ZZBBL - 40 credits
Structure, certificates and assessment
Over two years you will complete these modules:
Advanced Mineral Products Technology
(20 credits)
You'll gain the knowledge and skills required at an advanced level to apply theory to practice as it relates to the mineral products sector and competently perform technical operations to the standards, ethical and professional responsibilities required by the mineral products industry. Learners will have knowledge sufficient to permit informed, rational decision making in this specialist field of advanced mineral products technology and to implement decisions based on sound knowledge and understanding. It will enable them to work collaboratively with staff, clients, authorities, agencies, and the wider industry and suppliers.
Commercial and Financial Management
(20 credits)
This module provides an understanding of the key commercial and financial management issues for middle and senior managers, particularly in the mineral products industry. You'll develop your understanding of the business environment and the techniques used for appraising investment opportunities including the exploration of appropriate financial frameworks. You'll also learn about the legal framework within which project contracts operate looking at the formation of contracts, their validity and interpretation and breach of contract. In thismodule you'll also cover energy-saving and the financial benefits of managing health, safety, environment and sustainability.
Operations Management
(20 credits)
This module focuses on the key issues of operations management from a strategic and practical perspective, using relevant theory to explore the challenges to traditional operations management thinking in the increasingly globalised business environment within which the mineral products industry operates. You'll develop critical understanding of operations management and its constituent processes from both a theoretical and practical perspective with particular reference to the mineral products sector. You'll be able to enhance your career potential, personal and professional effectiveness, and performance in employment in the field of operations management in a range of organisations, but specifically in the mineral products industry. You'll also explore the critical importance of effective leadership and management overall and particularly in respect of health, safety and the environment.
Resource Management
(20 credits)
This module introduces and critically examines the concept of both material and human resources. You'll learn about all aspects of the employment process including resourcing, involvement, developmental and reward dimensions within the organisation and the importance of workforce participation. You'll also cover the key task of procurement, including the selection of suppliers and contractors as well as the management of suppliers, supply chains and inventory.
Work based/related project
(40 credits)
This module is designed to bring together all of your learning in relation to your own area of professional practice. You'll identify a particular problematic area in your organisation or sector and explore it in the context of current academic and professional thinking. You'll need to demonstrate your ability to diagnose the issue and draw conclusions from your reading and personal analysis.
How you'll learn
You'll study part time, online, and can choose to attend a number of optional workshops each year at Derby in the UK. Here you'll work face to face with our specialist academic staff, all of whom have extensive experience within the industry. It's also an opportunity to meet colleagues in your sector - swapping ideas and sharing best practice. These are not compulsory and will not affect your studying if you don't attend
Your learning is supplemented through online video and guest lecture presentations.
Elements of your programme materials are in an interactive electronic format and are released to you throughout the year. You'll have full online access to our library and other learning resources.
How you're assessed
You'll be assessed through a combination of exams and continuous assessment.
Entry requirements
This BSc (Hons) in Minerals Management (Top Up) is designed for those already employed within the sector, or recently new to the sector who have a requirement to further develop their skills and knowledge, and progress their career.
The following broad criteria applying for entry:
One of our Foundation Degrees or if you already hold the University of Derby Diploma in Quarry Technology, or the Diploma in Asphalt Technology and the Quarry Studies top up Certificate, and you've achieved the SHE NVQ4* (since 2005) or QCF SHE6 you can join the programme. However, you may also hold other qualifications which will enable you entry to the programme. Please contact us to discuss further
Learners are employed or have affiliation with an employer
Learners will have been nominated to attend following a review/discussion with their line manager and/or recruitment manager
Learners will have been identified by the organisation as being able to succeed on the programme
The selection of participants is consistent with the University’s equal opportunities policies and sensitive to legal obligations to avoid discrimination on the basis of gender, race or disability
Learners can demonstrate English language capability to that of GCSE English Language, IELTS 6.0 or its equivalent as a prerequisite of enrolment on the programme
Learners will complete an application form as provided by the University of Derby and meet the above requirements.
Learners must be at, or over the age of 18 upon the commencement date of their programme.
While the ultimate responsibility for ensuring that learners meet entry requirements and acceptance on to programmes rests with the University of Derby, employers typically nominate the majority of learners expected onto this programme. The prior experience of learners is a key factor in programme design and development as such employers, potential learners, professional bodies, and key stakeholders have been consulted during the programme development stage.
Fees and funding
UK and EU students
Year 1
£3,165
Year 2
£3,810
International students
Year 1
£4,025
Year 2
£4,690
*These fees apply if you’re starting this course between September 2023 and August 2024. We recommend you check fee details with us though, as they can change.
How to apply
Students should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Mineral Products
mineralproducts@derby.ac.uk
01332 591066
option 6
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us