Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/biomedical-science-courses/molecular-medicine-mres/

Molecular Medicine MRes - Biomedical Science - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Biomedical Science
Molecular Medicine MRes
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Molecular Medicine
MRes
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2 years
UK fee
£9,000 for the full course or £1,000 per 20 credits*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Our MRes Molecular Medicine will help you to develop the key skills you will need for a research career, and allow you to put these into practice when you develop and conduct your own research project. Studying a masters degree in Molecular Medicine at Derby will:
Develop you into a confident, independent researcher by teaching you essential research skills
Enable you to plan, execute, and evaluate your own biological research
Give you a stand-alone research qualification or bridge the gap between an undergraduate degree and PhD
Allow you to study full-time or part-time to support your other commitments
Provide you with the opportunity to conduct a substantial research project within your field of interest and under expert supervision
Specialised facilities
We have specialised laboratory facilities available for your research projects. Our facilities will help develop lab skills required for lab projects and laboratory experiments. These include a molecular laboratory housing qPCR and DGGE equipment, an imaging suite, human cell culture facility, a dedicated microbiology laboratory, and an analytical suite housing GC/MS, HPLC, AAS, UV-Vis, IC as well as a scanning electron microscope and transmission microscope. We have also recently secured £850k of capital funding to establish a new Omics facility. This ultra-modern, innovative research facility will provide training in the new and emerging fields of genomics, transcriptomics and proteomics.
New Bioscience Superlab
The University of Derby has been awarded £5.8 million from the Office for Students (OfS) to develop a new technology enhanced Bioscience Superlab and Research Lab with an opening date in 2025.
Find out more about the Superlab and Research Lab
Find out more about the Superlab and Research Lab
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
100
%
of students agrees that staff are enthusiastic about what they teach
100
%
of students agreed that staff are good at explaining things
100
%
of students agreed that the learning materials provided on the course were useful
Strong industry connections
We have strong connections with the Royal Derby Hospital and other health care providers. This gives you the opportunity to collaborate your research project with a range of organisations including the Royal Derby Hospital. This will allow you to network with professionals, enhance your career prospects and develop research that makes a real impact.
Experienced teaching team
Our staff expertise covers a diverse range of subjects and we have previously offered research projects in the following areas: human lifestyle and socio-economic drivers of disease risk, virology, microbiology and cancer research. Research systems at the larger spatial scale include investigating human lifestyle and socio-economic drivers of disease risk.
Project themes include
Research areas available for this academic year are below. Please contact our Head of Discipline for Biomedical and Forensic Science, Ian Turner, for initial enquiries: I.Turner@derby.ac.uk
What is the natural history of Human Papillomavirus in the Oropharynx?
Human papillomavirus (HPV) can cause cancers of the genital tract, predominantly cervical cancer. However, HPV is now known to be associated with a subset of Head and Neck cancers in the tonsils and base of the tongue, with younger men particularly at risk. Despite a thorough understanding of the natural history (prevalence, pathogenesis, and persistence) of HPV within a cervical infection, it is still not clear how HPV causes Head and Neck cancer. We have established a clinical study to examine the prevalence and pathogenesis of HPV within tonsillar tissue; this project will dissect and describe the natural history of HPV within the tonsil and examine how infections contribute to the development of Head and Neck cancer.
Cardiac rehabilitation – mixed methods study
Attendance on cardiac rehabilitation programmes is often lower amongst some ethnic groups, despite higher risks of cardiovascular disease. A project is available to explore why this varies between different groups of people, using methods such as questionnaires and focus groups to understand what lifestyle or socio-economic drivers may prevent engagement with health support.
Mechanisms of angiogenesis –
in vitro
laboratory-based study
Angiogenesis is the formation of new blood vessels from existing vasculature; it is an important process in both physiological processes and pathological conditions, including tumour growth. A project is available to research angiogenic signalling mechanisms using cell-based models and assays, as well as to perform a meta-analysis of current anti-angiogenic drugs.
Assessment of hypoxia associated marker levels in response to colloid nano-particle exposure: A 3D
In Vitro A
pproach
Colloid nanoparticles have previously been associated with increased reactive oxygen species levels following exposure, this has a number of effects on the cell architecture. One notable change is a link between hypoxia and surface expression of complement inhibitory proteins. This project aims to determine if there is a potential link between hypoxia associated markers and exposure to colloid gold nanoparticles, within a 3D cell culture approach.
Generation of anti-decay accelerating factor (CD55) aptamers for targeted delivery of colloid gold nanoparticles: A 3D
In Vitro/In Silico
approach
Generation and development of aptamers has the potential to replace current approaches for biomarker identification, this project will focus on the feasibility of developing an aptamer targeting CD55. CD55 is a cancer biomarker overexpressed at multiple solid-state cancer sites, with current approaches to detecting it being restricted to antibody approaches. The project will look to make use of structural bioinformatics and molecular docking alongside a lab-based selection of an aptamer using SELEX. Effectiveness of the aptamer will be assessed in silico and in vitro.
The role of novel stable apelin analogues in stem cell regeneration, neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation
Apelin is one of several endogenous adipokines, both preproapelin mRNA and APJ receptor mRNA have been detected in a wide range of tissue including neuronal cells. These bioactive peptides are involved in functions including GLP-1 induction and neuronal survival. We aim to further study the effects of this novel stable analogue in stem cell regeneration, neurodegeneration, neuro-inflammation.
Anti-oxidative effects of novel long acting apelin analogues
The adipocytokine, apelin, is abundantly secreted by adipocytes and shown to alleviate oxidative stress in cardio myocytes and vascular smooth muscle. Here we look to investigate the cytoprotective and anti-oxidative properties of apelin against hypoxia/reoxygenation induced oxidative stress and its role in placental health.
The effects of Nitrogen Dioxide (NO2) on the invasion of transformed early trophoblast cells
Nitrogen Dioxide (NO2) is one of a group of highly reactive gases which is a by-product of combustive engines that have been found to have major effects on human wellbeing. Studies have shown it has direct deleterious effects on the respiratory and cardiovascular system. However, the effects of NO2 on a developing foetus is not well studied, mainly due to ethical constraints. This in vitro study would investigate the direct effects of NO2 on the invasive capacity of transformed, first trimester, early trophoblast cells.
Uncovering the link between HPV and head and neck cancer
Our scientists have developed a new screening method that detects human papillomavirus (HPV) in the mouth. They are now using this method to gain a better understanding of how HPV causes head and neck cancer.
Read more
Read more
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
Modules
You'll study modules such as:
Independent Research (80 credits) or Independent Study (20 credits - PGDip only)
Professional Skills in Biomedical Science (40 credits)
Research Methods in Data Interpretation (20 credits)
Optional modules:
Applied Microbial Biotechnology (20 credits)
Clinical Haematology and Transfusion Medicine (20 credits)
Applied Immunology (20 credits)
Advanced Cellular Pathology (20 credits)
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
We offer a range of learning and teaching activities, including face-to-face and online teaching.
Assessment
You will be assessed through a variety of methods allowing you to show your individual strengths and abilities. These include essays, portfolios, a dissertation, blogs, presentations, and a viva voce.
Who will teach you
Dr Vadivel Parthsarathy
Programme Leader
Dr Vadivel Parthsarathy
Vadivel Parthsarathy is a Senior Lecturer in Biomedical Sciences at the University of Derby.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You will need an undergraduate degree (typically 2:1 or higher, 2:2 will be considered) in biology, human biology, biomedical health or a related subject. If you have professional experience in human health, you may also be considered as eligible for this course.
International students should have the above or an international equivalent. If English is not your first language, you will need to hold IELTS 6.5.
If you are selected for an interview, you will be asked to submit a one page proposal outlining the areas of interest for your potential research project. More details concerning this proposal will be provided when you are invited to interview.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,000 for the full course or £1,000 per 20 credits*
£1,000 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course or £1,055 per 20 credits*
£1,055 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
You will receive goggles and a laboratory coat. All equipment and consumables needed for your experimental/ fieldwork are provided by the University. This is subject to the type of project and consumables being approved by your Programme Leader
If a DBS check is needed for the purposes of a module or programme related work placement, this is included in your fee if done via the University
Optional costs not included in your fees
In addition to the material provide, some students like to create their own forensic toolkit to support crime scene work - cost is dependent on the items you choose to purchase
All recommended books are available in our library; however, you may wish to purchase optional textbooks or e-books to support your studies - costs for these are dependent on your choice
This course is accredited by the Chartered Society of Forensic Science and so you can become an associate member whilst you are studying, if that is the case you must cover membership costs
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
After completing our MRes in Molecular Medicine, you’ll be in a stronger position to secure a career within your field of interest. It could also be the springboard into pharmaceutical and research-based companies for your area of research. Career opportunities that may be available to you upon completion of this course are: research associate, analytical consultant, scientific writer, laboratory manager, or scientific advisor.
Should you wish to continue your learning experience beyond masters level, our course will prepare you for further study towards a PhD.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.