Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/motorsport-engineering-courses/motorsport-engineering-beng-hons-foundation/

Motorsport Engineering with Foundation Year BEng (Hons) - Motorsport Engineering - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Motorsport Engineering
Motorsport Engineering with Foundation Year BEng (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Motorsport Engineering with Foundation Year
BEng (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
H333
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
Prepare to make your mark in the highly competitive global motorsport industry. Offering vital technical and digital skills alongside practical experience, our BEng (Hons) Motorsport Engineering puts you on the road to success.
Set yourself apart as an innovative and resourceful motorsport engineer - ready to work with top teams or high-profile manufacturers
Not sure on the type of engineering you want to study? Spend the first year covering all aspects of engineering and gain the multi-disciplinary skills and knowledge that employers are looking for
In year two, you have the option to switch your degree to either
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering
,
BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering
or continue studying on BEng (Hons) Motorsport Engineering
Our
BEng (Hons) Motorsport Engineering
is professionally accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers on behalf of the Engineering Council to Partial Chartered Engineer (Partial CEng) level – this means that with further learning after completing this programme (e.g. an accredited MSc programme) you could fully satisfy the academic requirements for becoming a Chartered Engineer
Hone your skills in our state-of-the-art facilities, including a dedicated workshop space and our computer labs
Study a wide range of vehicles and systems
Take part in challenging extra-curricular activities such as
Formula Student
and Radical SR1 Cup Championship
Gain inspiring industry insights at exhibitions and race meetings
Top
20
for satisfaction with feedback
Mechanical Engineering subject area, The Guardian University Guide 2025
Top
10
for assessment and feedback
Production and Manufacturing Engineering subject area - National Student Survey 2024
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Practical and technical skills
Our teaching facilities benefit from a vast range of vehicles and systems for you to study. Our computer labs host technical software widely used in the motorsport industry for design, modelling and simulation. You'll gain a comprehensive understanding of topics such as advanced power train engineering, motorsport chassis design and computational fluid dynamics.
Facilities include:
Motorsport Workshop:
The workshop is equipped with several different race vehicles, engines and gearboxes where you'll gain hands-on experience. The facility is set up to deliver learning across advanced power train engineering, motorsport chassis design and computational fluid dynamics
Computer Labs:
Computers in these labs host industry-standard software where you'll work on the simulation aspect of vehicle dynamics, computational fluid dynamics and power train
Mechanical workshop:
Equipped with both traditional lathes and milling machines alongside more modern CNC equipment, you'll use this area to gain hands-on experience machining car parts
Wind Tunnel and Thermodynamics:
This practical space contains a wind tunnel and test engine. You'll test the aerodynamics of objects, studying the flow of air or gases around an object in motion
Makerspace:
This creative space can be used to work on any project and turn your ideas into a prototype. All students have access to this space, and it's a fantastic way of sharing knowledge and skills with one another. Equipment available includes 3D printers, CNC machines and a laser cutter
Real-world experience
We give you the opportunity to take part in a range of events where you can gain hands-on experience.
In your second year, lectures, tutorials and assessments are designed around our Radical SR1 race car, giving you the chance to enhance your race car engineering knowledge through practical and simulation work. There's also the opportunity to get involved in track testing and, on some occasions, participate in races.
Formula Student - the world’s biggest student motorsport competition – could also become a highlight of your studies.
Team Derby Motorsport
entered this competition for the first time in 2015 and won the Formula Student Rookie Team Award. This success resulted in a £3,000 grant for the team from the IMechE. The team will be taking part in the concept class in 2022.
Watch the video below of Team Derby Motorsport at the first round of the 2022
Radical SR1 Cup
Championship at Donington Park.
View Radical SR1 Cup Championship video transcript
Meeting the needs of the industry and you
Engineering is such a broad discipline, and you may not fully know which area of engineering is the right choice to study when beginning your studies.
Employers are increasingly seeking engineers with a broader knowledge of mechanical and electrical engineering to meet their environmental, consumer and business needs. As a University based in an advanced engineering city, it’s vital that we offer degrees with a strong focus on sustainability, electrification and automation.
With this in mind, we have developed our degrees to match the multi-disciplinary requirements that employers are shouting for. All engineering students will take the same core modules in the first year to gain an essential foundation in all aspects of engineering, giving you the chance to settle into your studies, and allowing you time to decide which area suits you best. At the end of your first year, you’ll have the opportunity to switch to either our
BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering
or
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering
degree should you realise your passion falls within this area, or you can continue on BEng (Hons) Motorsport Engineering.
Industry insight
Together, the teaching team have a range of experience working in the motorsport industry as well as researching current areas of growth. Our research teams work closely with local motorsport engineering companies and our
Institute for Innovation in Sustainable Engineering
to support and encourage innovation.
Dr Jianfei Xie:
Jianfei teaches and has expertise in computational fluid dynamics. His interests include aerodynamics and the structures of aeroplanes in the aeronautical engineering area
Professor Zhiyin Yang:
Zhiyin is a Professor of Aerospace Engineering at the University. He conducts world-leading research and has published over 100 scientific papers. His teaching covers Thermofluids and advanced computational fluid dynamics
Dr Shahed Motaman:
Shahed’s teaching covers CFD modelling, manufacturing and design and SolidWorks. His research covers a variety of areas including heat transfer simulations and multiphase flow
How Hannah followed her heart
Choosing whether to follow your head or your heart can be tough decision. But after following her heart, Hannah has ended up working with a professional racing team and collecting a Radical Technical Award on behalf of Team Derby Motorsport.
Read Hannah's story
Read Hannah's story
Motorsport Engineering student stories
Will's key stepping stone to a career in F1
Will studied our BEng (Hons) Motorsport Engineering degree and is now a Wind Tunnel Project Engineer for the Renault F1 team.
Engineer Charlotte's got designs on luxury car maker
Charlotte has gone from our Motorsport Engineering degree to designing cars for one of the biggest names in UK car production.
Switching lanes
Charley realised she was on a path her heart wasn't and changed direction to pursue her passion for motorsport.
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Real world learning
There are opportunities for you to go on an optional work placement as part of the BEng (Hons) Motorsport Engineering.
The course also includes field trips to local race circuits for testing and visits to a number of exhibitions where you can strengthen your professional networks. You will also attend guest lectures as part of the annual IMechE series.
How you are assessed
Assessment is through a mixture of coursework assignments, examinations and formal presentations.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Martin Sole
Programme Leader
Martin Sole
Martin is a Senior Lecturer in Mechanical/Aerospace Engineering and Programme Leader for the Mechanical, Electrical, and Motorsport Programmes.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Free student membership of relevant professional accreditation body
Some essential educational software packages will be provided free
Use of resources such as computer rooms, workshops and laboratories
Use of PPE kits in workshops as and when required, such as safety boots, safety googles and ear plugs
One industrial visit during induction week/first year
Talks from expert industry speakers
Small allowance for final year project
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Additional Educational Software approx. £100
Computer Accessories approx. £50
Workshop material approx. £100
Additional Industry visits approx. £50
Additional expenses for final year project approx. £50
Printing approx. £120
Optional costs not included in your fees
Personal computer or tablet computer approx. £500
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Our focus is on ensuring you are work-ready and this course will give you the all the confidence and skills you need to progress directly into the international motorsport arena.
Graduates have secured employment with companies like Cosworth, Zytec, JLR, Pirelli and EPM Composites. They have also raced all over the world and worked with international race teams in F1, GP2, FIA-GT and with a variety of national teams.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Motorsport Engineering MEng
Motorsport Engineering BEng (Hons)