Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/therapeutic-practice-courses/music-therapy-ma/

Music Therapy MA - Therapeutic Arts - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Therapeutic Arts
Music Therapy MA
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Music Therapy
MA
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 2 years
UK fee
£13,500 for the full course
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road and Britannia Mill, Derby Campus
If you would like to register and go into practice as a music therapist, this inspirational new masters course is the ideal route to success.
Achieve your ambitions on the only course of its kind in the Midlands and North of England
Choose an innovative masters degree which places music and musicianship at the heart of your learning and focuses on an integrative approach to practice
Integrate theory with practical experience: you’ll spend a significant amount of your time on placement
Learn from our experienced and enthusiastic tutors who continue to practise professionally as music therapists
Broaden your perspectives through inter-professional learning with other arts therapists
Benefit from our flexible and convenient study modes so that you can balance your learning with your other commitments
Join a department with a longstanding reputation for high-quality training in therapeutic arts
Our new MA Music Therapy helps meet a growing demand for expert practitioners who can harness the power of music in health, social care and community settings.
Join a worthwhile profession
Music therapy can have a significant impact on quality of life for people with learning difficulties, disabilities, dementia and mental health issues. It can also play an important role in palliative care, adoption scenarios, forensic work and in a broad range of other interventions which promote inclusivity and wellbeing.
This course will equip you with the skills to use music in ways which stimulate creativity, problem-solving and positive change.
‌The title of Music Therapist is legally protected and you need a masters qualification to practise. Our MA Music Therapy is aligned to standards set by the
Health and Care Professions Council
(HCPC), which acts as the regulatory body for music therapists.
Successful completion of the course means you can register with the HCPC to practise as a music therapist in the UK. When you embark on the MA, you can also apply to join the
British Association for Music Therapists
(BAMT) as a trainee and, on finishing your training, as a practitioner.
A course with broad appeal
Our course is ideal for aspiring music therapists with a first degree in subjects relating to therapeutic arts, music, education and health, as well as for professionals with experience in appropriate health and social care settings.
It has the advantage of being delivered at the heart of the country in Derby. The flexible study format means that you are expected to attend the University on only one full day each week, with the rest of the time dedicated to clinical placements and self-directed study.
Hone your skills on placement
Practical experience is a cornerstone of this course and essential for meeting HCPC standards. You’ll spend a significant proportion of your time on placement, working directly with a range of clients and learning to manage caseloads.
You could be placed with health, social care and community employers or with music therapists running their own practices. You’ll receive expert clinical supervision from a dedicated placement supervisor. Throughout the MA, you’ll also draw on real-world case study materials to ensure your learning is up to date and relevant.
Improve your musicianship
Our therapeutic arts courses are distinctive because they place the art form at the heart of practice. Music and performance, musicality and improvisation will be central to your learning. We will enhance your musicianship while developing your critical understanding of theory and research. You’ll also take part in a Music Therapy Experiential Group and complete an independent study into a musicianship theme of your choice.
An integrative approach
We work with an integrative approach to understanding the therapeutic relationship, considering person centred, music-centred and psychodynamic approaches. The focus is on helping clients to strengthen their inner resources so that they feel they can make positive changes in their lives.
Reflecting this ethos, you will be required to engage with personal therapy yourself for the full duration of the course.
Dynamic learning experiences
You’ll be taught by an enthusiastic, expert team experienced in all forms of arts therapy. The course includes reflective practice groups facilitated by registered music therapists and substantial practical work in our bespoke music studio with a wide range of instruments.
There are valuable opportunities for you to learn with – and from – students from other disciplines. This prepares you to work in a multi-professional team and achieve the best outcomes for your clients.
You’ll find our tutors are friendly, approachable and encouraging – they pride themselves on offering exceptional support to students.
An impressive track record
We have a strong reputation for excellence in therapeutic arts and have prepared hundreds of students for careers in education, health and community arts.
The MA builds on our expertise in offering a Music pathway on our popular BA (Hons) Creative Expressive Arts, Health and Wellbeing. It also complements our other masters degrees in Art Therapy, Dramatherapy and Dance Movement Psychotherapy. With Music Therapy joining our portfolio, we believe we are the only university in the country to offer such a comprehensive range of postgraduate courses in this field.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You will study the below modules:
Postgraduate Certificate
Music and Musicianship in Practice (20 credits)
Music Therapy Clinical Placement 1 (20 credits)
Arts Therapies Theory and Research in Relation to Practice 1 (20redits)
Postgraduate Diploma
Music Therapy Experiential Group 1 (10 credits)
Arts Therapies Theory and Research in Relation to Practice 2 (20 credits)
Music Therapy Clinical Placement 2 (20 credits)
Music Therapy Experiential Group 2 (10 credits)
MA
Arts Therapies Independent Scholarship: A Body of Work (60 credits)
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You will engage in practical/experiential group learning, lectures, seminars and personal tutorials. Practical application is integrated with the theory you need to understand and develop your practice.
Music practice and performance, musicality and improvisation will be central to your learning and development throughout the programme. The theoretical content of the course will largely be delivered face to face, with some use of blended learning where appropriate.
How you'll be assessed
The assessment methods are all based on your coursework. This includes a variety of written essays, both academic and reflective; case studies, either written or presented; and live and recorded performance.
Who you'll meet
You will learn from a variety of tutors who are in practice, ensuring that the course content is current and relevant to the real world.
Entry requirements
Applicants for the programme must hold a first degree (2:2 or above) in a relevant subject, or have significant relevant experience or equivalent qualifications.
They will also need to demonstrate sufficient experience of working in a setting which addresses the needs of individuals with, for example, emotional or mental distress, specific learning needs or developmental difficulties.
Additionally, they will need to demonstrate appropriate musical ability and skills in musicianship, together with the emotional robustness and intellectual capacity to cope with the demands of the programme.
All prospective candidates who meet the basic entry criteria will attend a selection day to assess their suitability for the programme and their preparedness for the intensive nature of the training.
If your first language is not English, you'll need to ensure that you have reached the required standards for English Language as recommended by the Health Professions Council. This is set at IELTS of at least 7.0 with 6.5 in each skills area or equivalent.
Interview Information
Admissions information
Please note that this course operates a pooled admissions approach and has a final application deadline of 3 March 2025. We may look to open another pool for our September 2025 intake, however, this cannot be guaranteed
Your portfolio
Following application submission, applicants will be asked to submit an online portfolio. Applicants who are invited to submit a portfolio will have two weeks to do so and will receive guidance information related to the completion of the portfolio.
The portfolio element of your application must be submitted and passed in order for you to be shortlisted for interview.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to complete a satisfactory virtual interview. Non-attendance may result in your application being withdrawn.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£13,500 for the full course
N/A
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£13,950 for the full course
N/A
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
Additional costs and optional extras
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Resources for practical workshops, clinical supervision, some travel to placements can also be refunded
DBS check
Health screening costs
Students can make use of Adobe Creative Suite which is installed on all Macs in MS102 and MS012 at Markeaton Street and students are provided with an individual Adobe Creative Cloud subscription for home use
To support their professional and skills development, students are provided with a subscription to LinkedIn Learning which offers over 13,000 courses and tutorials, including professional accreditations, in a wide range of creative, business & technology disciplines
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Travel to and from placements, some placement related expenses are reimbursed if students spend more than £5 per day in travel to and from placement
Minimum of 72 sessions of personal therapy approx. £3000
Students with a specialist instrument not available in the University will need to bring their own instrument if they wish to use it
Optional costs not included in your fees
Any additional academic books that students feel they need
Students may opt to engage in international trips and activities that are not fully funded, though bursaries may be available
Optional outings and trips will also require self-funding
Professional HCPC membership required to practice. More details can be found
www.hcpc-uk.org
British Association for Music Therapy - optional but advised
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
Music therapy is a rapidly evolving discipline and profession. Music making and shared musical experiences are increasingly recognised as valid ways of helping people to address social, emotional or physical difficulties.
Our new MA reflects the growing profile and status of the profession, enabling you to register and practise as a music therapist. It paves the way to rewarding careers in a wide range of health, social care and community settings. It could also give you a firm foundation if you would like to work on a self-employed or freelance basis.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Other courses you might like
Art Therapy MA
Dramatherapy MA
Dance Movement Psychotherapy MA
Creative Expressive Arts, Health and Wellbeing BA (Hons)