Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/music-music-production-courses/music-production-bsc-hons-foundation/

Music Production with Foundation Year BSc (Hons) - Music and Music Production - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Music and Music Production
Music Production with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Music Production with Foundation Year
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 Years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
J932
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
Top
10
for satisfaction with teaching
Music, Guardian University Guide 2025
Four key reasons to choose this course
Inspirational facilities - Learn in one of the country’s most advanced university recording studios
National endorsements - Assessors from JAMES said Derby’s music courses have “a unique personality”
Graduates with music technology and production skills can look forward to exciting career opportunities in a field which is constantly innovating
Our course blends the latest production techniques with creative vision and a strong understanding of the commercial environment
You'll gain an excellent understanding of the music industry and recording studios, and learn about the technology of the studio, and playback systems. You'll explore the process of sound recording and production, design and build your own sound-making tools, and complete a portfolio of commercial recordings. You'll also develop your awareness of the commercial environment, and how best to promote your music.
This course is accredited by Joint Audio Media Education Support (JAMES), which means it meets the highest professional standards set by industry. You’ll become part of a vibrant music scene within both the University and the city of Derby. Our teaching team includes experienced academics and practitioners who have in-depth knowledge of the industry and are breaking new ground in the discipline.
In the video below, Cristian reflects on his experience as an international student studying Music at Derby:
Beginning this journey is up there with the best decisions I ever made. I have gained knowledge in areas such as music business and management and have become a credible producer with experience of sound engineering on tracks.
David Owusu-Afriyie
Music Production graduate
JAMES accredited courses
Our Music courses are accredited by the Joint Audio Media Education Support (JAMES), the professional music industry accreditation body, so you can be confident that they meet the high standards demanded by industry.
Head of Music and Performing Arts, John Crossley, explains what this means for students: "The re-accreditation for our music programmes continues our long standing relationship with JAMES and the Music Producers Guild (MPG). The assessors were very impressed with our facilities, our committed teaching team and how we have dealt with the challenging circumstances of a global pandemic. This stamp of approval from professional producers in the industry means that our students can be confident not only with the quality of the programmes of study but also the opportunities and support they receive as they follow their exciting careers."
View Industry accredited Music and Music Production courses video transcript
Take a look at our professional facilities at Markeaton Street:
View Professional Music facilities at Markeaton Street video transcript
The lecturers are very inspirational and supportive, encouraging us to experiment with new techniques and be creative so we can reach our potential. I have learnt about acoustics, analogue and digital equipment and improved my post-production skills.
Sergiu Tita
BSc (Hons) Music Production student and professional producer Nasty Beat
Hands-on experience with Dubrek
Dubrek is a recording studio, rehearsal space, cafe, bar, art gallery and music venue, located in the heart of Derby city centre where students can gain work experience throughout their studies. Dubrek’s mission is to encourage people to engage with music, by championing local artists.
Find out more about Dubrek
Find out more about Dubrek
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Learning and assessment
The course is set in the context of the music industry and the recording studio, covering all aspects of the production process through to the completion of recordings to a commercial standard. There is an emphasis on practical studio skills where you will prepare, record, process and edit material to create a finished product. You’ll also undertake laboratory work, conducting experiments in areas of science and technology such as recording studio acoustics or electronics.
Strong employer links are a hallmark of this course. Our staff are actively engaged in projects across the industry, which opens doors for you to work on real-world projects, gain work experience, and hear from visiting performers and industry representatives. We have strong connections with companies such as Avid, Apple music products training division, Focusrite, Oxford Sound & Media, and Yamaha Commercial Audio.
Various assessment methods are used on this course, all designed to support your progress and give you just the right level of challenge. They include coursework, portfolios, assignments, case studies, oral and graphic presentations, collaborative and interdisciplinary team work projects, laboratory work, internet-based investigations, computer testing and exams.
Facilities
You’ll discover a superb range of music making facilities at our Markeaton Street site, including
state-of-the-art recording studios
, rehearsal space, auditoria, music technology labs and three post-production rooms equipped with latest software.
The University has invested almost £350,000 in these facilities, ensuring you have access to resources which match those of professional studios in the UK and overseas. We offer a wide range of instruments, amplifiers and outboard gear on which you can develop your skills, together with a classic 48 channel Neve recording console.
Thanks to our close relationship with Focusrite we were one of the first institutions in the world to install the RedNet system in our recording studios, which placed us at the forefront of developments in audio-over IP.
While these studio facilities will provide an excellent setting for your taught sessions, they are also available for you to book at other times to fine-tune your personal music projects.
You will also hone your performance skills at venues across the city, including Derby Theatre which the University owns and runs as a professional producing theatre.
People you will meet
You'll be taught by practising professionals, who have an excellent knowledge of the music industry.
Dr. Paul Vandemast-Bell
Mark Randell
John Crossley
Music studios
The music studios at our Markeaton Street site are state-of-the art.
Take a look at the studios
Take a look at the studios
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Cameron Jinks
Programme Leader
Cameron Jinks
Cameron is a Senior Lecturer in Commercial Photography.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study.
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
Offers will be made initially based on your application, including predicted grades and/or grades you have already achieved. You may be given the opportunity, within your offer letter, to submit a portfolio. If you submit a strong portfolio we will make you an unconditional offer, to reflect the quality of your work and your potential.
Additional entry requirements
Portfolio: Recommended -
view portfolio details
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Use of resources, high-end recording studios for both curricula and extra-curricular activities, studio time
Here at Derby, we provide excellent learning resources, libraries and specialist laboratories and studios
The programme uses Adobe Creative Suite which is installed on all Macs in MS102 and MS012 at Markeaton Street and students are provided with an individual Adobe Creative Cloud subscription for home use
To support their professional and skills development, students are provided with a subscription to LinkedIn Learning which offers over 13,000 courses and tutorials, including professional accreditations, in a wide range of creative, business & technology disciplines
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Additional materials (printing, stationary, portfolio sleeves, folders, USBs/hard drives etc.) Approx. costs - Year 1 = £150, Year 2 = £200, Year 3 = £300
Personal Instrument miscellaneous costs, eg Guitar Leads, Strings, Drum Sticks etc.
There will be occasions when you will be expected to attend exhibitions, screenings, performances and festivals. You will need to budget for these over each academic year
Optional costs not included in your fees
Additional course-related publications (approx. costs £100)
Final year project costs (costs determined by student £200-£600)
Travel for work placement opportunities (costs will vary depending on location)
We provide full details of all course fees, but extra costs may include field trips (approx. cost £200-£400)
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Playing a critical role in the UK’s creative economy, the music industry is undergoing dramatic change. New digital distribution models are emerging, live events are rocketing in popularity, and exciting new ways of music-making are constantly evolving. It means that professionals specialising in music technology and production are in greater demand than ever before – in the UK and overseas.
Sound and music technology is important in almost every aspect of the entertainment industry. Sound recordists, music producers, audio engineers, broadcasters, musicians, composers, film-makers, computer game designers and sound designers all use music technology in some form or other. Our graduates have progressed into many fields of professional activity including production and studio work, outside broadcast management and web design.
You can also consider taking your skills to the next level by studying our
MA Music Production
like Harry and Jordan who feature in the below video:
View our Music students YouTube video transcript
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Music Production BSc (Hons)
Popular Music BA (Hons)
Sound, Light and Live Event Engineering BSc (Hons)
Chat to our students
−