Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/negotiated-musculoskeletal-ultrasound-1/

Negotiated Musculoskeletal Ultrasound 1 - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Negotiated Musculoskeletal Ultrasound 1
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Negotiated Musculoskeletal Ultrasound 1
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Module details
Module code
7RD534
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
January
Location
Distance learning
Module description
About this module
This module will equip you with the knowledge, attitudes and complex skills necessary to undertake a negotiated range of musculoskeletal ultrasound examinations.
Building on your existing experience as a health care professional, the module will enable you to extend your existing specialist skills to provide a high quality musculoskeletal ultrasound service in your own clinical area.
Working closely with a work place mentor, an academic supervisor and an expert advisor, you will be able to define your own learning needs and build a portfolio of evidence that demonstrates competence and the scope of your emerging musculoskeletal ultrasound experience.
Module content and planned learning outcomes will be agreed by formation of a negotiated learning contract that includes a minimum of two of the following areas of negotiated practice.
Shoulder
Hand, wrist and elbow
Foot and ankle
Hip and knee
Rheumatology
Neonatal hips
Lumps, bumps and hernias
Ultrasound guided injections.
In all cases, learning contracts will include review of:
Rationale for the development of a musculoskeletal ultrasound service
Current relevant international, national and local legislation, healthcare policy, professional guidelines
Relevant anatomy, physiology and pathology
Vetting and justification of ultrasound requests
Purpose of scan, common Indications, contraindications and limitations
Patient presentation, preparation and consent
Importance of clinical history and clinical examination
Dynamic ultrasound assessment of the relevant area, image optimisation and interpretation
Imaging and reporting protocols
Comparison of ultrasound with other diagnostic tests and the relevance of ultrasound findings in patient management
Clinical governance, self-audit and learning from discrepancies
Raising concerns, safeguarding, statutory requirements for reporting vulnerable patients
Liaison within medical and surgical teams; professional conduct and accountability.
An individual learning strategy will be agreed with each student. This will include a mixture of self-directed learning, tutorial support and supervised scanning practice.
Placement learning
In line with CASE requirements, you will require access to a suitable clinical placement.
The total number of scanning hours will vary according to your own specific learning needs. You will be expected to have access to supervised training sessions throughout the duration of the module.
The goal of training is competency, and this must be demonstrated rather than rigid adherence to a fixed number of training scans.
All students must have access to a work place who has the necessary skill and experience to assess final competence in the student’s specialist area. Normally, the mentor will be based within your own Trust.
Who is this course for
Health care professionals.
Learning outcomes
On successful completion of this module, you will be able to:
Demonstrate the complex skills necessary to plan, perform and interpret dynamic ultrasound assessment in a negotiated range of musculoskeletal applications
Critically evaluate and, where required, report upon the ultrasound findings within a negotiated area of musculoskeletal practice. Where necessary, arrange, advise or undertake further investigations appropriate to local policies and contribute effectively to the multi-disciplinary healthcare team.
Reflect critically on the development of a musculoskeletal ultrasound service within your clinical setting, the implications for patient management and your own role extension.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.