Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/negotiated-musculoskeletal-ultrasound-2/

Negotiated Musculoskeletal Ultrasound 2 - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Negotiated Musculoskeletal Ultrasound 2
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Negotiated Musculoskeletal Ultrasound 2
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
Learning outcomes
Course details
Course code
7RD535
Course level
Level 7
Course credits
20 credits
Next course date
January
Location
Distance learning
Course description
About this module
Building on your existing musculoskeletal ultrasound experience, the module will enable you to extend your skills to provide an enhanced ultrasound service in your own clinical area.
Working closely with a work place mentor, an academic supervisor and an expert advisor, you will be able to define your own learning needs and build a portfolio of evidence that demonstrates competence in an expanded area of practice.
Module content and planned learning outcomes will be agreed by formation of a negotiated learning contract that includes a minimum of two of the following areas of negotiated practice.
Shoulder
Hand, wrist and elbow
Foot and ankle
Hip and knee
Rheumatology
Neonatal hips
Lumps, bumps and hernias
Ultrasound guided injections
In all cases, learning contracts will include review of:
Rationale for the development of a musculoskeletal ultrasound service.
Current relevant international, national and local legislation, healthcare policy, professional guidelines.
Relevant anatomy, physiology and pathology.
Vetting and justification of ultrasound requests.
Purpose of scan, common Indications, contraindications and limitations
Patient presentation, preparation and consent.
Clinical history and clinical examination of the patient
Dynamic ultrasound assessment of the relevant area, image optimisation and interpretation
Imaging and reporting protocols
Comparison of ultrasound with other diagnostic tests and the relevance of ultrasound findings in patient management
Clinical governance, self-audit and learning from discrepancies.
Raising concerns, safeguarding, statutory requirements for reporting vulnerable patients.
Liaison within medical and surgical teams; professional conduct and accountability.
The module is delivered by a combination of distance learning, supervised clinical practice and attendance at a small number of high intensity study days. Individual negotiation of a learning contract will identify intended learning outcomes and these are assessed by a portfolio of evidence.
Placement Learning
In line with CASE requirements, you will require access to a suitable clinical placement.
The total number of scanning hours will vary according to your own specific learning needs. You will be expected to have access to supervised training sessions throughout the duration of the module.
The goal of training is competency, and this must be demonstrated rather than rigid adherence to a fixed number of training scans.
All students must have access to a work place mentor who has the necessary skill and experience to assess final competence in the student’s specialist area. Normally, the Mentor will be based within your own Trust.
Who is this course for
Musculoskeletal ultrasound specialists.
Learning outcomes
On successful completion of this module, you will be able to:
Demonstrate competence in the complex skills of dynamic ultrasound assessment, interpreting of ultrasound images and reporting in extended areas of musculoskeletal ultrasound practice.
Critically review the use of ultrasound within your own specialty.
Present a clear rationale for the expansion of ultrasound provision within your own work place and assess the impact that this may have on clinical practice for the benefit of service users.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.