Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/nuclear-scientist-and-nuclear-engineer-degree-apprenticeship/

Nuclear Scientist and Nuclear Engineer Degree Apprenticeship - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Nuclear Scientist and Nuclear Engineer Degree Apprenticeship
Apply now
Apply now
Apprenticeship Course
Nuclear Scientist and Nuclear Engineer Degree Apprenticeship
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Benefits
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Next course date
October
Duration
46 months
Delivery
Blended learning
Course description
The Nuclear Scientist and Nuclear Engineer Degree Apprenticeship has been developed in collaboration with
Rolls-Royce plc
to enable apprentices to gain a workbased qualification suitable for professional engineers in the nuclear manufacturing industry. The apprenticeship provides you with the skills, qualifications and experience needed to design, make, verify, and support the manufacturing operations involved in the production of nuclear power generation units.
As a degree apprentice, you will develop skills in manufacturing nuclear components and systems that can be used in a variety of applications. You will gain a firm foundation in engineering principles and experience across the full breadth of nuclear engineering as you take on a variety of placements across the engineering lifecycle and in different parts of the business, as well as studying for a BEng(Hons) Nuclear Engineering. Your placements may include product and system design, testing, manufacture and in-service support in a mix of day-to-day and project work. All of these experiences will equip you to complete your apprenticeship as a nuclear engineer, with a huge range of opportunities ahead of you.
The degree programme, BEng(Hons) Nuclear Engineering, has been designed to contribute to the on and off-the-job training and the acquisition of the knowledge, skills and behaviours for the degree apprenticeship, and provide specific skills and knowledge for a general career within the nuclear sector. The technical element will enable you to gain the knowledge, skills and behaviours (KSBs) for the apprenticeship and progress in order for the apprentice to pass their End Point Assessment (EPA).
Apprentice will study in the Nuclear Skills Academy, based in Derby, in the newly fitted out iHub building on Infinity Park. It will be the home of the apprentices on all the programmes, managed by the University of Derby and additionally supported by industry and education experts, including the Nuclear Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre, the National College for Nuclear and Derby City Council.
Key Characteristics
Learning takes place both at the University and in the workplace and uses real workbased activities. Your off-the-job learning is additionally supported by industry and education experts, including the Nuclear Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre, Nuclear Skills Academy and the National College for Nuclear. This ensures that the degree apprentices will have access to the best mentors and facilities throughout their degree apprenticeship.
Whilst completing this course, learners will receive:
Access to industrial mentors and visiting lecturers, experts in the field of nuclear manufacturing from the industry
The opportunity to develop interdisciplinary skills and behaviours for a challenging career at the highest level in nuclear engineering
Emphasis on knowledge and skills acquisition as real-world learning of nuclear engineering Concepts in advanced industrial applications
Flexible and dynamic delivery methods and curricula
A personally rewarding apprenticeship programme with nuclear systems focus
An excellent teaching and learning environment with research-active staff who apply their research in teaching situations
Study of an accredited degree programme for professional accreditation to Incorporated Engineer (IEng) and partial Chartered Engineer (CEng) level
The ability to gain UKSpec competencies towards acquiring Incorporated Engineer (IEng) status.
Structure, certificates and assessment
You will be studying for this qualification part time over 4 years, 3 semesters per year in years 1 to 3 and 2 semesters in year 4.
Your degree apprenticeship is a work based learning qualification comprised off-the-job and on the job learning. These elements are integrated so that you can relate and apply your learning into practice in the workplace and acquire the relevant knowledge, skills and behaviours you need to pass your End Point Assessment (EPA). This is an integrated EPA and you will take it as part of your final year of study.
Modules
Year 1
Introduction to Nuclear Science and the Nuclear Industry
Electrical Engineering Principles
Engineering Mathematics 1
Mechanical Engineering and Design
Business Management
Engineering Materials and Manufacturing
Year 2
Fluids and Thermodynamics (Nuclear)
Engineering Mathematics 2 (Nuclear)
Lifecycle and Maintenance Management in the Nuclear Industry
Corporate and Professional Responsibility (Nuclear)
Digital Manufacturing (Nuclear)
Structural Analysis and Reliability (Nuclear)
Control and Instrumentation Engineering (Nuclear)
Year 3
Systems Engineering and Management
Technical Responsibility (Nuclear)
Engineering Leadership, Sustainability and Ethics
Innovation in Nuclear Design and Manufacture
Advance Manufacturing Technology and Systems (Nuclear)
Computational Mechanics and Performance (Nuclear)
Sensors and Embedded Systems (Nuclear)
Year 4
End Point Assessment Synoptic Project and Competence Interview (Nuclear)
Request more information about our apprenticeship programmes
Want to talk to a member of the team about our apprenticeship programmes? Make an enquiry and a member of our team will get in contact with to provide you with more information about our apprenticeships, and how our programmes can up-skill your workforce.
Request more information about apprenticeships
Request more information about apprenticeships
Benefits
The apprenticeship in Nuclear Science and Engineering will provide an impact for yourself and your company. Rolls-Royce Submarines will benefit from the knowledge and skills you will use to progress technological development in nuclear engineering and your behaviours will not only contribute to the company’s values but will also enable you to work confidently in challenging situations. Your career aspirations are explored in the apprenticeship and you will be able to progress to IEng or CEng recognition with a professional engineering institution.
Entry requirements
Employment requirements
You must be in paid employment for at least 30 hours per week and your employer must agree to cover the costs of the apprenticeship.
Academic requirements
Employers usually set their own selection criteria and entry requirements and we can work with them on this. However, typically an applicant might be expected to have level 3 qualifications, such as:
Numerical, Scientific, or Engineering-related subject
You will also be required to have five GCSE passes grade C or above including the following subjects:
Maths
English
Science
Direct entry at level 5 will be commensurate on achieving RPL equivalent to level 4 of the degree programme in academic study (from 2023 onwards)
Fees and funding
The cost will be paid for by the employer.
More details for employers
The cost of this apprenticeship will normally be in line with the funding band £27,000 but we will consider individual agreements, depending on student numbers and your involvement.
If you pay into the Apprenticeship Levy, this funding will be used. If you don't, generous government subsidies are available - talk to us to find out more.
How to apply
You will need to apply through your employer. However, you can find out more from us - please see below for contact information.
Contact us
Apprenticeship Hub
Email:
apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk
Phone:
01332 593092