Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/nursing-associate/

Nursing Associate - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Nursing Associate
Apply now
Apply now
Apprenticeship Course
Nursing Associate Apprenticeship
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Next course date
September and April
Duration
Minimum of 2 years
Course description
What is a nursing associate?
Nursing associate is a relatively new role, which bridges the gap between health and care assistants and registered nurses. Nursing associates work in many health and social care settings, from hospitals to care homes, hospices, GP practices and community services.
Responsibilities vary depending on the care setting you work in, but your duties are likely to include:
performing and recording clinical observations such as blood pressure, temperature, respirations and pulse
undertaking clinical tasks including venepuncture and ECGs
supporting people when they are faced with unwelcome news and life-changing diagnoses
discussing and sharing information with other professionals on a patients’ condition, behaviour, activity and assessments
ensuring the privacy, dignity and safety of individuals is maintained at all times
recognising issues to do with safeguarding vulnerable children and adults.
Key benefits of this apprenticeship
Learn about all four fields of nursing
so you can find out where your passions and talents lie.
Get the qualification you need to become a Registered Nursing Associate
(a title protected by law) and/or use this as a step towards becoming a Registered Nurse.
Earn as you learn
– most of your learning will take place at work or on placement, with one day per week at university, plus an extra ‘skills week’ each year.
We were one of the first institutions to offer a nursing associate programme
, so this is a well-established programme run by experienced tutors.
Our apprentices won ‘Nursing Associate Trainee of the Year’ two years running
at the Student Nursing Times Awards 2020 and 2021.
I love how hands on it is, from placements to practicals. I have explored areas which I wouldn’t have chance to do in my normal everyday role, which has been super beneficial for my career development.
Tarnia Lefevre
Previous nursing associate apprentice
Who is this apprenticeship for?
You need to be in relevant paid work for at least 30 hours a week and have the backing of your employer.
If you don’t have this, or would prefer to study full-time, you could take our
two-year Nursing Associate FdSc
instead, which gives you the same qualification.
People usually take this apprenticeship for one of the following reasons:
They want to become a Registered Nursing Associate and want to learn while working
They want to become a Registered Nurse but don’t yet have the qualifications to get onto the
Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship
or one of our
full-time nursing degrees
.
They want to become a Registered Nurse but don’t yet know which area to specialise in, so they want to experience all four areas of nursing first.
These are all good reasons to take this apprenticeship!
After completing the programme and the End Point Assessment, you can join either our Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship or one of our full-time nursing degrees in year two, meaning you can complete that qualification faster (within 18 months.)
Please note
:
If you have already taken our
Assistant Practitioner Higher Apprenticeship
programme, you may not be able to apply for this apprenticeship.
Contact us
to find out more.
Expert teachers
Our teaching team includes experts in all four areas of nursing. All are qualified health professionals, with years of experience in nursing and leadership roles within health and social care. They have strong links with the local NHS trusts as well as with smaller health and social care providers.
From Healthcare Assistant to Qualified Nursing Associate
Before beginning her apprenticeship journey, Anna was a healthcare assistant in A&E during Covid-19, an experience that kickstarted her ambitions to become a healthcare professional.
Read Anna's story
Read Anna's story
Structure, certificates and assessment
The course includes the following modules, which everyone must take:
Stage one
Professionalism and the role of the Nursing Associate
Providing and Monitoring Person-Centred Care
Holistic Health Promotion
Practical Assessment Part 1
Stage two
Managing the complexities of health conditions
Using evidence for quality care
Transition to Registered Nursing Associate practice
Practice Assessment Part 2
A blend of on-the-job and academic learning
Most of your learning will be on-the-job and led by your employer. However, you will come into university for one day per week (45 weeks of the year), during which you will attend lectures, tutorials, seminars, debates, and practice-based workshops. You may also need to come into university for an extra ‘skills week’ each year.
Placements
As well as working in your paid role, you must also complete 460 hours of placements in other environments (about 20% of the apprenticeship). We will need the support of your employer to find these placement opportunities. You will have a Practice Supervisor on each placement who will provide guidance, support, and valuable feedback.
Please be aware that you are expected to travel up to 90 minutes each way to get to a placement, and to work the shift hours set by that organisation.
How you are assessed
You will be assessed on both the practical and academic parts of the course by a Practice Assessor and an Academic Assessor. They will regularly discuss your progress. You will need to record your completed proficiencies, placement hours, supervisor meetings and more, in a practice assessment document.
Your university work will be assessed in a variety of ways, including through poster presentations, exams, essays, assignments, and case-based discussions.
After you have completed the two-year programme, within three months you will need to complete an End Point Assessment (EPA). The EPA is a process that ensures you have met the requirements for the apprenticeship.
From care worker to registered nursing associate and beyond
While working in the private care sector, Rachel Atkin began researching careers in nursing and found out about the Nursing Associate Apprenticeship. She's now completed the course and is moving on to our BSc Adult Nursing.
Read about her journey
Read about her journey
Request more information about our apprenticeship programmes
Want to talk to a member of the team about our apprenticeship programmes? Make an enquiry and a member of our team will get in contact with to provide you with more information about our apprenticeships, and how our programmes can up-skill your workforce.
Request more information about apprenticeships
Request more information about apprenticeships
Entry requirements
We welcome and encourage applications from people of all ages as long as they can be considered adequately prepared to succeed on the programme.
To apply for this apprenticeship you must currently be in paid employment of at least 30 hours per week. Your employer must cover the costs of the apprenticeship and will allow external placements as well as their usual working week.
Level 2 English qualification
(GCSE Grade 4-9, GCSE Grade A-C, Level 2 Functional Skills English, Key Skills Level 2 Communication or equivalent); (
essential
)
Level 2 Maths qualification
(GCSE Grade 4-9, GCSE Grade A-C, Level 2 Functional Skills Maths, Key Skills Level 2 Application of Number (Numeracy) or equivalent); (
essential
)
Health or care experience
to demonstrate an insight into the professional values and behaviours associated with health and care environments (
desirable
)
Applicants will have a
minimum of a Level 3 qualification
. Where applicants do not have a level 3 qualification, a portfolio assessment will be offered.
Employers are responsible for ensuring students
meet occupational health requirements and have passed appropriate vetting procedures
, which includes a Disclosure and Barring Service Check and right to work check. This is evidenced through the submission of supplementary evidence as part of the selection process (
Apprentices/employer-sponsored only
)
Students will have been identified by the organisation as being able to succeed on the programme, and employers may set additional entry requirements as part of the selection process prior to assessment for entry by the University.
Fees and funding
Employers
Cost of the apprenticeship will normally be in line with the funding band £15,000, but individual agreements will be considered depending on student numbers and involvement of employers.
Apprentices
Fees will be paid by your employer with government funded support or through the apprenticeship levy.
Additional costs and optional extras
How to apply
Applications to this apprenticeship must be made through the employer. If you are an individual who is not yet employed within this sector, you may find the following links useful:
https://careerfinder.ucas.com/jobs/
https://www.stepintothenhs.nhs.uk/
https://www.jobs.nhs.uk/
You can find out more from us - please see below for contact information.
Contact us
Apprenticeship Hub
Email:
apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk
Phone:
01332 593092
Additional information about your studies
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
The information below is correct for entry in the academic year September 2020 - August 2021 only. Entry for future academic years may be subject to change.
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Suitable shoes that comply with uniform policy approximately £40
Travel to and from internal and external placements
Professional
NMC membership
required to practice once qualified
Optional costs not included in your fees
Textbooks to supplement anything available through the library - various prices depending on the content
Printing costs of course materials if a hard copy is desired approximately 5p per sheet
Other courses you might like
Assistant Practitioner Higher Apprenticeship