Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/nursing-health-care-practice-courses/nursing-adult-msc/

Nursing (Adult) MSc - Nursing and Health Care Practice - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Nursing and Health Care Practice
Nursing (Adult) MSc
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Nursing (Adult)
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 2 years
UK fee
9,250 per year
(2024/25)
International fee
14,900 per year
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Our nursing programmes are approved against the Nursing and Midwifery Council's (NMC) new
Future nurse: Standards of Proficiency for registered nurses
Upon successful completion of the programme, you will be eligible to apply for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council in your chosen field of practice.
Gain essential practical experience on a range of placements in different healthcare and community settings.
Benefit from some of the best university facilities of their kind, including our clinical skills suite and our state-of-the-art immersive suite.
Learn from a highly experienced, enthusiastic and research-active team who provide full support to help you achieve your ambitions.
You could be eligible for the NHS Learning Support Fund which, if you are eligible, could provide a grant for training, childcare costs and travelling to placements.
This course prepares you for registration as an Adult nurse, enabling you to work with a range of client groups with acute, diverse and long-term conditions.
This programme is a holistic learning experience, enabling students to become emotionally resilient and transformational Registered Nurses of the future. This is a two-year, full-time programme and supports those with a prior degree (2:2 or above) to become a registered nurses at an accelerated pace. You will also need prior work experience in a service user context, allowing you to demonstrate the skills that underpin professional nursing registration. Your prior experiences will contribute to the learning opportunities within the course and together these will provide eligibility to apply for registration as a nurse with the NMC.
Students develop an in-depth and comprehensive understanding about their chosen field of practice and recognise the principles of nursing across all fields and across the lifespan. Modules provide the foundation for students to develop a compassionate professionalism whereby they are trusted in the care they provide. Learning will be facilitated through a range of classroom-based activities, skills laboratories and by electronic means such as online learning, web-based training and technology-delivered instruction.
A highly rewarding career choice
We have a strong track record in providing high-quality and innovative nurse education. We help you develop an in-depth understanding of the demands and rewards of the role so that you are fully prepared to work with adult patients who have diverse, acute and chronic conditions.
Expertise to inspire you
You'll be supported by enthusiastic and dedicated academic staff who are immersed in their areas of practice and committed to supporting you at every stage of your studies. All academic staff are current NMC registered professionals with some continuing to work in clinical practice alongside their teaching role.  The academic team includes renowned professionals whose work features regularly in leading journals and books and who help shape national policies.
This course is mapped against the NMC standards to ensure that your learning is up to date and relevant. In delivering the programme, we respond to national changes such as the latest government policies. As a result, some of the information about the course may change.
Wide-ranging placement experience
A compulsory part of the course is practice learning which equates to 50% of the overall programme in line with the NMC standards (NMC, 2018). Students must complete a range of placements to meet the minimum hours requirement for practice learning and to support the application of theory to practice.
Practice learning is achieved through a variety of placement experiences to enable you to gain essential practical experience by participating in 24-hour care. Throughout, you'll benefit from the support of Practice Assessors and Practice Supervisors who will help you get as much out of the experience as possible.
Students experience a wide variety of simulated learning activities throughout the programme to prepare for the real world of nursing. This also ensures students continually link theory to practice and feel supported for entering the clinical environment.
First class facilities
Our Derby campus offers outstanding facilities, including clinical skills suites built to professional standards, with replica wards, counselling rooms and treatment rooms fully equipped with the latest resources.
As health care is increasingly delivered by multi professional teams, we offer opportunities for you to learn with, and from, students from other disciplines. This is really important in preparing you to work in more flexible ways after graduation. By learning to work together, you can help achieve the best outcomes for patients and service users.
Students also participate in learning that is specific to their field but is also co-taught across the four fields of nursing. There is opportunity for students studying at different academic levels to learn with, and from each other. This provides opportunity to meet the NMC standards whilst replicating professional relationships that students encounter in clinical practice.
94
%
of students agree they are satisfied with the quality of their course
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
The course is delivered over two academic years; however, practice is assessed in three equal parts. This is an intensive course and you will need commitment, motivation and a desire to succeed. The programme holds high expectations that you are engaged and ready to be an independent learner and that you are able to meet the theory and practice hours required by the NMC that reflect this full-time programme of study.
You will complete a range of modules to develop the fundamental knowledge and skills for safe, effective nursing practice where the interests of people using or needing nursing services, are put first. These modules provide the foundation for you to develop a caring professionalism where you can be trusted in the care you provide.
Stage one
Professional Nursing Practice
Evidence Based Nursing Practice
Complex Care in Nursing Practice
Stage two
Leadership for Nursing Practice (Adult)
Innovation and Improvement in Nursing Practice (Adult)
Transition to Autonomous Practice (Adult)
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
So that you are fully prepared for your career, we ensure that your skills and knowledge match current working practices in health and social care. The practical abilities you develop on placement will be underpinned and extended by the knowledge you gain through lectures, tutorials, workshops and simulated practice activities.
We harness the latest technology in all aspects of the course. Modules are linked to the University’s Virtual Learning Environment (VLE), so that you have 24-hour access to relevant resources both on and off campus. We also capture ‘live’ lectures via Panopto which you can view at times that suit you via the VLE.
In addition, our students benefit from access to a range of online resources such as Clinical Skills Net, an online resource offering video tutorials in essential clinical skills. The anatomy and physiology content of the programme is supported in a similar way through Wiley PLUS.
Who you'll meet
You will be taught by qualified health professionals with extensive experience of nursing and leadership roles. They have proven, sustained track records in higher education teaching, with most holding Fellowships of the Higher Education Academy.
Our staff keep up to date with latest developments in the sector by undertaking continuing professional development as part of their registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council.
Programme Leader: Solomon Towuru.
How you are assessed
There are a diverse range of authentic assessments within the programme. Assessments are aligned to module learning outcomes and support students to build academic skill and professional development. Assessment feedback and feedforward mechanisms encourage dialogue, provide action plans, and utilise academic, student, and practice support staff where required. This ensures that students are fit for practice, purpose, award, and professional standing on completion of the award.
Each assessment within the programme has the following underpinning characteristics:
Each assessment has value and distinct relevance to professional nursing practice.
They support development and progression through the programme.
Each assessment focuses on supporting students to meet the NMC standards for registration.
They support the application of theory to practice.
The assessment process is transparent, and students receive timely and constructive feedback to support their success.
Assessment of practice learning is recorded in the Practice Assessment Document (MYEPAD), which is designed to support and guide students towards successfully achieving the criteria set out in the Future nurse: Standards of Proficiency for Registered Nurses and Standards for Education and Training (NMC 2018). The MYEPAD is a regionally validated document developed collaboratively with other local universities. The University of Derby continues to work in partnership to support a consistent approach to student supervision and assessment.
Who will teach you
Solomon Towuru
Programme Leader
Solomon Towuru
Solomon module leads Integrated Mental Health Nursing Practice stage one at the Chesterfield site. Using research informed teaching, Solomon aims to empower learners to develop outstanding nursing attribut...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You will need:
Education
Essential: Grade C (or Grade 4) maths and English (or equivalent)
Essential: Honours degree 2:2 or above
Desirable: Experience of education or study within the last five years
Work Experience
Essential: 800hrs of work experience in a service user context obtained in the last five years
Desirable: Paid employment
In addition
Applicants must complete an occupational health assessment and Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check as part of the selection process and any offer made will be subject to these.
Applicants must submit an Enhanced CV using the programme template to evidence how past experiences are relevant to a career in nursing and to evidence 800 hours of work experience.
Applicants whose first language is not English must demonstrate IELTS 6.5 overall with no less 6.0 in any element (or equivalent level in OET).
Please note: The post-graduate programme admissions team will screen direct applications on the above criteria.  Application forms will then be sent to the programme leaders (or their nominated deputy) to review on an individual basis.
Interview Information
Extended CV guidance
Applicants are required to submit supplementary evidence as an extended CV to demonstrate how their previous care experience and graduate studies have equipped them to undertake an accelerated programme.  This will be reviewed prior to any offer of interview.
As a minimum the extended CV must include:
GSCE English language and maths at grade C/4 or above or the equivalent
International applicants can demonstrate their English language from any of the accepted qualifications. Any testing with evidence of attainment needs to be completed prior to the submission of an initial application. If applicants are using a WAEC qualification as certified evidence this must be at a minimum of C4 for English and C6 for Maths
Evidence of practice (minimum 800 hours).
Applicants must provide evidence of health and/or social care experiences within the last 5 years and include references verifying hours completed.
Evidence of theoretical learning (minimum 792 hours).
Original transcript of previous academic study, demonstrating 360 credits at level 6 study .
Evidence of achievement of standards for pre-registration nursing education commensurate with point of entry of the 2-year MSc Nursing programme (NMC 2018).
Mapping of experience and learning to the identified NMC Platforms.
In preparing the claim, the applicant should demonstrate that the evidence provided is:
Valid, i.e., that it matches the learning outcomes against the claim is being made
Sufficient, i.e., the amount and level of evidence matches the outcomes against which the claim is being made
Authentic, i.e., it relates to the applicants own work and should be able to be verified
Current, i.e., within the last 5 years
Please note: Applications will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis, and will only be considered where evidence has been provided on completion of the extended CV. After application submission and providing all entry requirements and initial evidence is satisfactory, suitable candidates will then be required to attend an interview as part of the professional Recognition of Prior Learning requirements of this Nursing and Midwifery Council (UK) approved programme. Non-attendance will result in your application being withdrawn.
Please contact the programme team to discuss if you have any queries about your education/work experience.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
9,250 per year
N/A
International
14,900 per year
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional fee information
Please note
at postgraduate level, you'll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MSc
180 Credits
Further details on available funding is yet to be confirmed for the academic year of 2024-25. Please check back at a later date for more information.
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
9,250 per year
N/A
International
16,900 per year
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
By studying on this programme, you may be eligible for a Tuition Fee Loan of up to £9,250. The loan will support your studies and enable you to start a rewarding career in healthcare.
All new and continuing nursing and allied health students on pre-registration courses will also receive a grant of at least £5,000 per year that is not means-tested and will not have to be repaid. This is provided through the NHS Learning Support Fund (LSF) and is not managed by the University. Please check with the LSF for residency requirements and eligibility criteria.
If you're eligible, you can get:
A training grant of £5,000 per academic year
Parental support of £2,000 if you have at least one dependent child under 15 years or under 17 years if registered with special educational needs
Money back for excess travel and temporary accommodation costs while you're on your placement
£1,000 if studying a shortage specialism
Among others, the shortage specialisms have been confirmed to include:
Mental health nursing
Learning disability nursing
Diagnostic radiography
In addition to this non-repayable grant, you may also able to access a maintenance loan of up to £9,488 per year to support your studies, giving you access to over £17,000 per year of funding. Training grant payments will be paid in three instalments over the academic year. This is to provide you with a consistent flow of funding throughout the academic year as far as possible.
All NHS LSF applications must be submitted within six months of the start of the academic year and you will need confirmation of your Student Finance in order to complete your application. You need to set up an
NHS Learning Support Fund
online account to apply.
Additional costs and optional extras
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Uniforms
Markers, name badges and ID holders
DBS Check
Occupational Health check
Mandatory vaccinations mandatory training
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Suitable footwear for skills sessions and placements approx. £40
Travel to and from university base. (Please note if you are eligible for NHS Learning Support Fund (LSF) you may be able to claim back for excess travel and temporary accommodation costs while you're on your placement.)
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Travel expenses
Suitable shoes that comply with uniform policy approx £40
Optional costs not included in your fees
Textbooks to supplement anything available through the library, various prices depending on content
Printing costs of course materials if a hard copy is desired approx. 5p per sheet
Students may opt to engage in international trips and activities that are not fully funded, though bursaries may be available
Optional outings and trips will also require self-funding
Professional NMC membership required to practice. More details can be found at www.nmc.org.uk
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
This course has now closed for September 2024 entry. Applications can be made for September 2025 entry.
Important information for applicants
To be considered for an offer to study, the following must be 'evidenced' as part of your initial application submission:
GSCE English language and maths at grade C/4 or above or the equivalent
International applicants can demonstrate their English language from any of the accepted qualifications. Any testing with evidence of attainment needs to be completed prior to the submission of an initial application. If applicants are using a WAEC qualification as certified evidence this must be at a minimum of C4 for English and C6 for Maths
Find out more about our English language requirements
After application submission and providing all entry requirements and initial evidence is satisfactory, suitable candidates will then be required to submit an online portfolio of evidence as part of the professional Recognition of Prior Learning requirements of this Nursing and Midwifery Council (UK) approved programme. You will not receive access to this online portfolio until authorised by the programme team. The portfolio element of your application must be submitted and passed in order for you to be shortlisted for interview.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to complete a satisfactory virtual interview in order to gain a place on the programme. Non-attendance will result in your application being withdrawn.
Careers
On completion of the programme, students are eligible to apply for registration with the
Nursing and Midwifery Council
in their field of practice. Students have five years to register their award with the Nursing and Midwifery Council following completion of the programme. A variety of careers and career pathways are open to Registered Nurses and may choose to work in hospitals, community services, primary care services, mental health services, children’s services, learning disability services, general practice, and private, voluntary, and independent services across the NHS or other health and care organisations.
Graduates of the programme may wish to return to academic study, further developing their skills and knowledge to undertake a range of specialist or advanced roles. There is a wide offer of post-registration provision within the College of Health, Psychology, and Social Care, and many students chose to return to the University of Derby for postgraduate study and for continuing professional development.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Other courses you might like
Nursing (Mental Health) MSc
Nursing (Children’s) BSc (Hons)
Nursing (Adult) BSc (Hons)