Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/nursing-courses/nursing-mental-health-bsc-hons/

Nursing (Mental Health) BSc (Hons)  - Nursing - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Nursing
Nursing (Mental Health) BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Accredited by the Nursing and Midwifery Council
Nursing (Mental Health)
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 per year
(2024/25)
UCAS points
120
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
B780
Start dates
September, See below
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
St Helena, Chesterfield
The best bits
Our nursing programmes are approved to the NMC's Future nurse: Standards of proficiency for registered nurses
Upon successful completion of the programme, you will be eligible to apply for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council in your chosen field of practice
Gain essential practical experience on a range of placements in different healthcare and community settings
Benefit from some of the best University facilities of their kind, including our clinical skills suite and our state-of-the-art immersive suite
Learn from a highly experienced, enthusiastic and research-active team who provide full support to help you achieve your ambitions
You could be eligible for the NHS Learning Support Fund that could provide a grant for training, childcare costs and travelling to placements
Registered Nursing Associates may be eligible to enter the programme at the 18-month point
Mental health
problems
currently affect one in four of the UK population. If you’re caring and compassionate, with exceptional communication skills and a real passion for helping people, this degree is for you.
The course prepares you for registration as a mental health nurse, enabling you to work with a range of client groups with acute, diverse and long-term conditions
This programme is a holistic learning experience, enabling students to become emotionally resilient and transformational Registered Nurses of the future. This is a full-time 3 -year course and students will
complete a range of modules to develop the fundamental knowledge and skills for safe effective nursing practice where the interests of people using or needing nursing services are put first.
Students develop an in-depth and comprehensive understanding about their chosen field of practice and recognise the principles of nursing across all fields and across the lifespan. Modules provide the foundation for students to develop a compassionate professionalism whereby they are trusted in the care they provide.
Learning will be facilitated through a range of classroom-based activities, skills laboratories and by electronic means such as online learning, web-based training and technology-delivered instruction.
Top
15
for Mental Health Nursing
The Guardian University Guide 2024
Top
15
for student satisfaction
Nursing and Midwifery subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
95
%
of students agreed that teaching staff are good at explaining things
BSc (Hons) Mental Health Nursing - National Student Survey 2024
92
%
Overall Learning Resources
BSc (Hons) Mental Health Nursing - National Student Survey 2024
Top
20
for Teaching
BSc (Hons) Mental Health Nursing - National Student Survey 2024
Mental Health Nursing - your questions answered!
In the below video, Senior Lecturer, Angela Pereira, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Mental Health Nursing at the University of Derby.
View Mental Health Nursing - your questions answered! video transcript
If you already hold a degree and are looking to qualify as a mental health nurse, find out more about our
MSc Nursing (Mental Health)
.
If you are a registered Nursing Associate and hold a FdSc and are looking to qualify as a mental health nurse, find out more about our BSc Direct Entry programme.
A highly rewarding career choice
Mental health nurses support people with depression, anxiety, dementia, bulimia nervosa, post-natal depression and a whole range of other conditions that can lead to unhelpful thoughts and ideas. They focus on people’s strengths and resources – helping them to overcome and cope with their problems and maximising their life potential.
This course is built around the ethos that everyone has a right to evidence-based care, whatever their background and circumstances. It equips you to excel as a confident, versatile and capable mental health nurse.
Expertise to inspire you
You'll be supported by enthusiastic and dedicated academic staff who are immersed in their areas of practice and committed to supporting you at every stage of your studies. All academic staff are current NMC registered professionals with some continuing to work in clinical practice alongside their teaching role.  The academic team includes renowned professionals whose work features regularly in leading journals and books and who help shape national policies.
This course is mapped against the NMC standards to ensure that your learning is up to date and relevant. In delivering the programme, we respond to national changes such as the latest government policies. As a result, some of the information about the course may change.
Wide-ranging placement experience
A compulsory part of the course is practice learning which equates to 50% of the overall programme in line with the NMC standards (NMC, 2018). Students must complete at least 2300 hours of practice learning to support the application of theory to practice.
Practice learning is achieved through a variety of placement experiences to enable you to gain essential practical experience by participating in 24-hour care. Throughout, you'll benefit from the support of Practice Assessors and Practice Supervisors who will help you get as much out of the experience as possible.
Students experience a wide variety of simulated learning activities throughout the programme to prepare for the real world of nursing. This also ensures students continually link theory to practice and feel supported for entering the clinical environment.
First class facilities in Derby and Chesterfield
You can take this course at our
Derby Campus
or our
Chesterfield site
. Both offer outstanding facilities, including clinical skills suites built to professional standards, with replica wards, counselling rooms and treatment rooms fully equipped with the latest resources.
As health care is increasingly delivered by multi-professional teams, we offer opportunities for you to learn with, and from, students from other disciplines. This is really important in preparing you to work in more flexible ways after graduation. By learning to work together, you can help achieve the best outcomes for patients and service users.
Students also participate in learning that is specific to their field but is also co-taught across the four fields of nursing. There is opportunity for students studying at different academic levels to learn with, and from each other. This provides the opportunity to meet NMC standards whilst replicating professional relationships that students encounter in clinical practice.
Mental Health Nursing student Alex reveals his secret
Alex Balcon wants to promote an inner fire within you. He had always believed a career in nursing to be nothing but a fantasy. Now he's a Mental Health Nursing student, and he's ready to tell you his secret.
Read Alex's story
Read Alex's story
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Chesterfield Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at The University of Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the campus, tour our first-class facilities and meet our academic team.
Book your Chesterfield Open Day
Book your Chesterfield Open Day
How you will learn
So that you are fully prepared for your career, we ensure that your skills and knowledge match current working practices in health and social care. The practical abilities you develop on placement will be underpinned and extended by the knowledge you gain through lectures, tutorials, workshops and activities in the University’s own high-quality training facilities.
We harness latest technology in all aspects of the course. Modules are linked to the University’s Virtual Learning Environment (VLE), so that you have 24-hour access to relevant resources both on and off campus. We also capture ‘live’ lectures via Panopto which you can view at times that suit you via the VLE.
In addition, our students benefit from access to Clinical Skills Net, an online resource offering video tutorials in essential clinical skills. The anatomy and physiology content of the programme is supported in a similar way. In a new development, we are also introducing the Values Exchange, a global discussion forum on ethical issues relating to health and social care.
How you’re assessed
Our assessment approaches include assignments, exams, online activities, problem-based learning, and viva voce (oral) examinations. You’ll also produce a professional portfolio, which will support your Continuing Professional Development (CPD) as well as your lifelong learning.
The opportunity to gain assessment feedback support will encourage dialogue, enabling students to make the most of their feedback, provide action plans and utilise academic, student and practice support staff as required.
Who you'll meet
You will be taught by qualified health professionals with extensive experience of nursing and leadership roles. They have proven, sustained track records in higher education teaching, with most holding Fellowships of the Higher Education Academy.
Our staff keep up to date with latest developments in the sector by undertaking continuing professional development as part of their registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council. Some hold external examiner posts with other universities and some carry out clinical supervision for professionals working in their area of expertise.
We are committed to supporting you at every stage of the course. We offer enhanced personal tutoring which mirrors the professional relationships you will go on to have in practice with service users and colleagues when you embark on your career.
Research is an integral part of our work and we make key contributions to the University’s
Health and Social Care Research Centre
. Current initiatives include studies into dementia and a major long-term research project exploring values, compassion and care in undergraduate nursing. There may even be opportunities for you to work alongside our researchers to gain an insight into the value of research.
The teaching team is supported by ‘experts by experience’ – leading practitioners who regularly share their knowledge in teaching sessions at the University, together with clinical staff from our placement providers.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Kelly Bramwell
Programme Leader
Kelly Bramwell
Kelly Bramwell is a lecture in Mental Health Nursing, based at the Chesterfield site.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
120
A Level
BBB
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DDM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
If you do not meet the entry requirements for this course, our admissions team may offer you an alternative course that will enable you to continue in your aspirations towards becoming a registered nurse.
*The University will accept the Senior Healthcare Support Worker Apprenticeship in lieu of UCAS points or level 3 qualification requirements.*
Students should apply for the full degree programme and our admissions team will get in touch with you after the interview stage if this pathway is suitable for you.
Health or care experience that demonstrates insight into the professional values and behaviours associated with health and care environments is desirable.
Additional entry requirements
Interview: Yes
view interview details
An
Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service certificate
cleared by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this once you have applied
An
Occupational Health Assessment
and Clearance by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this when required
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each skills area)
If you do not meet the entry requirements for this course, our admissions team may offer you an alternative course that will enable you to continue in your aspirations towards becoming a registered nurse.
Students should apply for the full degree programme and our admissions team will get in touch with you after the interview stage if this pathway is suitable for you.
Fees and funding
2024/25
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£14,900 per year
N/A
Funding for Nursing and Allied Health courses
By studying on this programme, you are eligible for a Tuition Fee Loan of up to £9,250. The loan will support your studies and enable you to start a rewarding career in healthcare.
All new and continuing nursing and allied health students on pre-registration courses will also receive a grant of at least £5,000 per year that is not means-tested and will not have to be repaid. This is provided through the NHS Learning Support Fund (LSF) and is not managed by the University. Please check with the LSF for residency requirements and eligibility criteria.
If you're eligible, you can get:
A training grant of £5,000 per academic year
Parental support of £2,000 if you have at least one dependent child under 15 years or under 17 years if registered with special educational needs
Money back for excess travel and temporary accommodation costs while you're on your placement
£1,000 if studying a shortage specialism
Among others, the shortage specialisms have been confirmed to include:
Mental health nursing
Learning disability nursing
Diagnostic radiography
In addition to this non-repayable grant, you are also able to access a maintenance loan of up to £9,488 per year to support your studies, giving you access to over £17,000 per year of funding. Training grant payments will be paid in three instalments over the academic year. This is to provide you with a consistent flow of funding throughout the academic year as far as possible.
All NHS LSF applications must be submitted within six months of the start of the academic year and you will need confirmation of your Student Finance in order to complete your application. You need to set up an NHS Learning Support Fund online account to apply.
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Uniforms
Markers, name badges and ID holders
DBS Check
Occupational Health check
Mandatory vaccinations
Mandatory training
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Suitable footwear for skills sessions and placements approx. £40
Travel to and from university base. (Please note if you are eligible for NHS Learning Support Fund (LSF) you may be able to claim back for excess travel and temporary accommodation costs while you're on your placement.)
Optional costs not included in your fees
Textbooks to supplement anything available through the library, various prices depending on content
Printing costs of course materials if a hard copy is desired approx. 5p per sheet
Students may opt to engage in international trips and activities that are not fully funded, though bursaries may be available
Optional outings and trips will also require self-funding
Professional NMC membership required to practice. More details can be found at
www.nmc.org.uk
Please note: Our courses are refreshed and updated on a regular basis. If you are thinking about transferring onto this course, you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
On successful completion of this degree, you’ll be eligible to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and go into practice as a qualified mental health nurse, as long as you meet the
NMC’s requirements
.
With a national shortage of nurses nationwide, you will discover a wide range of career opportunities. Many of our students have secured jobs before completing their studies and are increasingly offered positions in the early stages of their third year of training.
We offer full support to help you achieve your career goals, including guidance on applications, CVs and interview techniques. Employers from the NHS, private sector, army, navy and RAF are among the many organisations who attend our annual career fairs as part of their recruitment drives.
Our graduates go into a wide range of health and social care settings, including hospitals, nursing homes, community roles, the voluntary sector, prisons and the armed services, to name but a few. Many take up roles in settings where they gained experience on placement.
Take your studies to the next level
We offer a full range of post-registration courses to help you gain more advanced and specialist skills and take the next step in your career.  Our portfolio includes innovative courses which you can study flexibly to gain a deeper understanding of advanced practice.
You could also explore broader issues such as leadership for healthcare improvement or inter-professional practice. If you would like to conduct independent research into a specialist aspect of health and social care practice, there are opportunities to progress to doctorate level study too.
Many of our post-registration courses and modules can be incorporated into your workplace practice as part of a programme of continuing professional development. Find out more about our
Health and Social Care short courses
.
Nurse of the Year - 2021
Gerri Mortimore, Senior Lecturer at the University of Derby, has won the 'Nurse of the Year' Award at the British Journal of Nursing Awards 2021
Read the full story
Read the full story
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Nursing (Adult) BSc (Hons)
Nursing (Children’s) BSc (Hons)
Psychology BSc (Hons)
Nursing (Mental Health) MSc
Chat to our students
−