Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/nursing-courses/nursing-adult-and-leadership-msci/

Nursing (Adult) and Leadership MSci - Nursing - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Nursing
Nursing (Adult) and Leadership MSci
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Accredited by the Nursing and Midwifery Council
Nursing (Adult) and Leadership
MSci
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 per year
(2024/25)
UCAS points
128
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
B701
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
The best bits
Our nursing programmes are approved against the NMC's Future nurse: Standards of Proficiency for Registered Nurses
Upon successful completion of the programme, you will be eligible to apply for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council in your chosen field of practice
Gain essential practical experience on a range of placements in different healthcare and community settings
Benefit from some of the best university facilities of their kind, including our clinical skills suite and our state-of-the-art immersive suite
Learn from a highly experienced, enthusiastic and research-active team who provide full support to help you achieve your ambitions
You could be eligible for the NHS Learning Support Fund which, if you are eligible, could provide a grant for training, childcare costs and travelling to placements
This course prepares you for registration as a nurse, enabling you to work with a range of client groups with acute, diverse and long-term conditions
Top
20
for teaching quality in Nursing
Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024
99
%
in professional occupations 15 months after graduation
Guardian University Guide 2024 (Adult Nursing and Nursing Associate)
This programme is a holistic learning experience, enabling students to become emotionally resilient and transformational Registered Nurses of the future. This is a full-time 4-year course which enables applicants, who do not have a prior degree, to achieve a Masters level award alongside NMC registration in their chosen field of practice.
Students will complete a range of modules to develop the fundamental knowledge and skills for safe effective nursing practice where the interests of people using or needing nursing services are put first. Students will also develop an in-depth and comprehensive understanding of their chosen field of practice and recognise the principles of nursing across all fields and across the lifespan.  During year 4, students will complete modules which provide developing leadership skills which will support future career progression. Learning will be facilitated through a range of classroom-based activities, skills laboratories and by electronic means such as online learning, web-based training and technology-delivered instruction.
A highly rewarding career choice
We have a strong track record in providing high-quality and innovative nurse education. We help you develop an in-depth understanding of the demands and rewards of the role so that you are fully prepared to work with patients who have diverse, acute and chronic conditions.
If you already hold a degree and are looking to qualify as an adult nurse, find out more about our
MSc Nursing programmes.
Expertise to inspire you
You'll be supported by enthusiastic and dedicated academic staff who are immersed in their areas of practice and committed to supporting you at every stage of your studies. All academic staff are current NMC registered professionals with some continuing to work in clinical practice alongside their teaching role. The academic team includes renowned professionals whose work features regularly in leading journals and books and who help shape national policies.
This course is mapped against the NMC standards to ensure that your learning is up-to-date and relevant. In delivering the programme, we respond to national changes such as the latest government policies. As a result, some of the information about the course may change.
Wide-ranging placement experience
A compulsory part of the course is practice learning which equates to 50% of the overall programme in line with the NMC standards (NMC, 2018). Students must complete at least 2300 hours of practice learning to support the application of theory to practice.
Practice learning is achieved through a variety of placement experiences to enable you to gain essential practical experience by participating in 24-hour care. Throughout, you'll benefit from the support of Practice Assessors and Practice Supervisors who will help you get as much out of the experience as possible.
Students experience a wide variety of simulated learning activities throughout the programme to prepare for the real world of nursing. This also ensures students continually link theory to practice and feel supported for entering the clinical environment.
First class facilities in Derby
You can take this course at our Derby Campus which offers outstanding facilities, including clinical skills suites built to professional standards, with replica wards, counselling rooms and treatment rooms fully equipped with the latest resources.
As health care is increasingly delivered by multi professional teams, we offer opportunities for you to learn with, and from, students from other disciplines. This is really important in preparing you to work in more flexible ways after graduation. By learning to work together, you can help achieve the best outcomes for patients and service users.
Students also participate in learning that is specific to their field but is also co-taught across the four fields of nursing. There is opportunity for students studying at different academic levels to learn with, and from each other. This provides opportunity to meet the NMC standards whilst replicating professional relationships that students encounter in clinical practice.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
So that you are fully prepared for your career, we ensure that your skills and knowledge match current working practices in health and social care. The practical abilities you develop on placement will be underpinned and extended by the knowledge you gain through lectures, tutorials, workshops and simulated practice activities.
We harness the latest technology in all aspects of the course. Modules are linked to the University’s Virtual Learning Environment (VLE), so that you have 24-hour access to relevant resources both on and off campus. We also capture ‘live’ lectures via Panopto which you can view at times that suit you via the VLE.
In addition, our students benefit from access to a range of online resources such as Clinical Skills Net, an online resource offering video tutorials in essential clinical skills. The anatomy and physiology content of the programme is supported in a similar way through Wiley PLUS.
How you’re assessed
There are a diverse range of authentic assessments within the programme. Assessments are aligned to module learning outcomes and support students to build academic skill and professional development. Assessment feedback and feedforward mechanisms encourage dialogue, provide action plans, and utilise academic, student, and practice support staff where required. This ensures that students are fit for practice, purpose, award, and professional standing on completion of the award.
Each assessment within the programme has the following underpinning characteristics:
Each assessment has value and distinct relevance to professional nursing practice.
They support development and progression through the programme.
Each assessment focuses on supporting students to meet the NMC standards for registration.
They support the application of theory to practice.
The assessment process is transparent, and students receive timely and constructive feedback to support their success.
Assessment of practice learning is recorded in the Practice Assessment Document (MYEPAD), which is designed to support and guide students towards successfully achieving the criteria set out in the Future nurse: Standards of Proficiency for Registered Nurses and Standards for Education and Training (NMC 2018).  The MYEPAD is a regionally validated document developed collaboratively with other local universities. The University of Derby continues to work in partnership to support a consistent approach to student supervision and assessment.
Who you'll meet
You will be taught by qualified health professionals with extensive experience of nursing and leadership roles. They have proven, sustained track records in higher education teaching, with most holding Fellowships of the Higher Education Academy.
Our staff keep up to date with the latest developments in the sector by undertaking continuing professional development as part of their registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council.
Research is an integral part of our work and we make key contributions to the University’s Health and Social Care Research Centre. There may even be opportunities for you to work alongside our researchers to gain an insight into the value of research.
The teaching team is supported by ‘experts by experience’ – leading practitioners who regularly share their knowledge in teaching sessions at the University, together with clinical staff from our placement providers.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
128
A Level
ABB
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DDM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
Health or care experience that demonstrates insight into the professional values and behaviours associated with health and care environments is desirable.
Additional entry requirements
Interview: Yes
view interview details
An
Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service certificate
cleared by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this once you have applied
An
Occupational Health Assessment
and Clearance by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this when required
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each skills area)
Interview: Yes
Health or care experience to demonstrate an insight into the professional values and behaviours associated with health and care environments (desirable)
Applicants must complete an occupational health assessment and Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check as part of the selection process and any offer made will be subject to these.
Applicants whose first language is not English must demonstrate IELTS 6.5 overall with no less than 6.0 in any element (or equivalent level in OET).
If you do not meet the entry requirements for this course, our admissions team may offer you an alternative course that will enable you to continue in your aspirations towards becoming a registered nurse.
Students should apply for the full degree programme and our admissions team will get in touch with you after the interview stage if this pathway is suitable for you.
Please note that admissions for the course is conducted on a gathered field basis. To find out more about the definition and process of a gathered field
please see our
Gathered Field Policy
.
Fees and funding
2024/25
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£14,900 per year
N/A
Funding for Nursing and Allied Health courses
By studying on this programme, you are eligible for a Tuition Fee Loan of up to £9,250. The loan will support your studies and enable you to start a rewarding career in healthcare.
All new and continuing nursing and allied health students on pre-registration courses will also receive a grant of at least £5,000 per year that is not means-tested and will not have to be repaid. This is provided through the NHS Learning Support Fund (LSF) and is not managed by the University. Please check with the LSF for residency requirements and eligibility criteria.
If you're eligible, you can get:
A training grant of £5,000 per academic year
Parental support of £2,000 if you have at least one dependent child under 15 years or under 17 years if registered with special educational needs
Money back for excess travel and temporary accommodation costs while you're on your placement
£1,000 if studying a shortage specialism
Among others, the shortage specialisms have been confirmed to include:
Mental health nursing
Learning disability nursing
Diagnostic radiography
In addition to this non-repayable grant, you are also able to access a maintenance loan of up to £9,488 per year to support your studies, giving you access to over £17,000 per year of funding. Training grant payments will be paid in three instalments over the academic year. This is to provide you with a consistent flow of funding throughout the academic year as far as possible.
All NHS LSF applications must be submitted within six months of the start of the academic year and you will need confirmation of your Student Finance in order to complete your application. You need to set up an NHS Learning Support Fund online account to apply.
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Uniforms
Markers, name badges and ID holders
DBS Check
Occupational Health Check
Mandatory vaccinations mandatory training
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Suitable shoes that comply with uniform policy approx. £40
Travel to and from university base. Please note if you are eligible for NHS Learning Support Fund (LSF) you may be able to claim back for excess travel and temporary accommodation costs while you're on your placement.
Optional costs not included in your fees
Textbooks to supplement anything available through the library - various prices depending on the content
Printing costs of course materials if a hard copy is desired
Students may opt to engage in international trips and activities that are not fully funded, though bursaries may be available
Optional outings and trips will also require self-funding
Professional NMC membership required to practice. Find out more at the
NMC website
.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
On completion of the programme, students are eligible to apply for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council in their field of practice. Students have five years to register their award with the Nursing and Midwifery Council following completion of the programme. A variety of careers and career pathways are open to Registered Nurses and may choose to work in hospitals, community services, primary care services, mental health services, children’s services, learning disability services, general practice, and private, voluntary, and independent services across the NHS or other health and care organisations.
Graduates of the programme may wish to return to academic study, further developing their skills and knowledge to undertake a range of specialist or advanced roles. There is a wide offer of post-registration provision within the College of Health, Psychology, and Social Care, and many students choose to return to the University of Derby for postgraduate study at masters and doctoral level and for continuing professional development.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Discover Uni
This is a new course so the data displayed via Discover Uni is for students studying in another subject area.
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Nursing (Child) and Leadership MSci
Nursing (Mental Health) and Leadership MSci
Nursing (Learning Disabilities) and Leadership MSci
Nursing Dual Award (Adult and Child) MSci
Nursing Dual Award (Adult and Mental Health) MSci