Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/obstetric-ultrasound/

Obstetric Ultrasound - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Obstetric Ultrasound
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Obstetric Ultrasound
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Fees and funding
Module details
Module code
7RD515
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
40 credits
Next course date
October
Location
Online
Module description
About this module
The aim of this CASE accredited module is to produce a competent, reflective and autonomous practitioner capable of safe and effective use of ultrasound in the assessment of a wide range of obstetric referrals. It focuses on development of competence in assessment of a broad range of obstetric ultrasound referrals. This includes routine and emergency first trimester assessment, routine first and second trimester fetal anomaly screening and third trimester fetal monitoring.
400 total learning hours for the module include seven full days of on campus teaching / tutorials and directed study tasks. In addition, you will require access to a suitable clinical placement for a recommended minimum of 14 hours (two days) per week supervised scanning practice for the duration of the module.
To enrol to this module:
you must be studying or have completed the Principles of Medical Ultrasound module (or an equivalent qualification).
you must have access to a recommended minimum of two days per week supervised scanning practice with a named ultrasound mentor.
Entry is subject to discussion with module leader and completion of a practice based agreement.
Who is this course for
This module is aimed primarily at sonographers, midwives or obstetricians who wish to provide a full range of routine / emergency obstetric ultrasound services.
Learning outcomes
On successful completion of the module you will be able to:
Analyse the needs of the patient, relatives and attendees, reflecting critically on the effectiveness of their communication skills and level of care provided.
Demonstrate the complex skills necessary to plan and perform high quality trans- abdominal and trans-vaginal obstetric ultrasound examinations safely, competently and professionally, according to the current evidence base.
Interpret, critically evaluate and report upon the ultrasound findings, where necessary, arrange, advise or undertake further investigations appropriate to local policies and contribute effectively to the multi disciplinary healthcare team.
Reflect critically upon the use of ultrasound in assessment and management of pregnancy, the effectiveness of local obstetric ultrasound services, implications for patient management and where appropriate, propose alternatives for service improvement.
Fees and funding
If you are funding your own study, the module price will be confirmed shortly.
For more information on payment options, please contact our Student Records and Fees team by phone on
+44 (0)1332 591063
or email at
studentrecordsandfees@derby.ac.uk
.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.