Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/obstetrics-communication-skills-study-day/

Obstetrics Communication Skills (study day) - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Obstetrics Communication Skills (study day)
Apply now
Apply now
Short course
Obstetrics Communication Skills study day
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Next course date
This short course has been cancelled with no further bookings being taken at this time.
At this time, the health and wellbeing of our staff, students and visitors must be our primary concern.
We hope to reschedule the event in due course. Please check the course page for updates.
To register your interest for this short course or for any enquiries please contact
c.carter@derby.ac.uk
We apologise for any inconvenience and hope to see you at a future event.
Duration
1 day
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Lecture/workshop days - dates/times
10am-4.30pm
Course description
The aim of the day is to provide a basis of knowledge for delivering difficult news in an obstetric ultrasound setting. The day will involve discussion around breaking difficult news, techniques for the development of these skills, live skills development and exploring what support is needed for professionals.
Structure, certificates and assessment
On completion of the study day, attendees will receive a certificate of attendance.
Entry requirements
You will have to be an experienced ultrasound user or relevant point of care specialist e.g. Sonographer, obstetric trainee, trainee sonographer/ultrasound practitioner
Fees and funding
The cost of the study day is £100
How to apply
Book your place
through our online shop.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Course: Claire Carter (Module leader)
marketing@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591044
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Who you'll meet
Course Leader:
Gillian Coleman