Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/occupational-therapy-courses/occupational-therapy-bsc-hons-foundation/

Occupational Therapy with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)  - Occupational Therapy - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Occupational Therapy
Occupational Therapy with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Occupational Therapy with Foundation Year
BSc (Hons)
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
80
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
B92F
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Top
10
for assessment and feedback
Counselling, Psychotherapy and Occupational Therapy subject area - National Student Survey 2024
100
%
of Students agreed that teaching staff are good at explaining things
BSc (Hons) Occupational Therapy - National Student Survey 2024
Top
20
for learning opportunities
BSc (Hons) Occupational Therapy - National Student Survey 2024
A career in occupational therapy offers variety, purpose and immense job satisfaction. Successful completion of the degree ensures you are eligible to apply to the HCPC to join a rewarding profession where you can help people facing physical and mental challenges to overcome barriers to their independence.
A good application/performance will be taken into account if you do not meet the criteria/offer conditions
Learn from a dedicated and skilled team who have worked in a broad spectrum of occupational therapy roles
Improve your practical skills in our superb facilities ranging from a rehabilitation kitchen to an immersive simulation suite
The Foundation Year course leads on to the full BSc (Hons) Occupational Therapy degree that is accredited by the Royal College of Occupational Therapists, and approved by the World Federation of Occupational Therapists and the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) meaning when you graduate, you’ll be eligible to apply to the HCPC for registration to practice.
Please note that it is not possible to apply directly to the following course. For this foundation year course, it is only possible to attain a place if you do not get the grades expected having been provided with an offer for the BSc equivalent.
A worthwhile and rewarding career
As an occupational therapist, you’ll support people who have a range of difficulties to perform the everyday activities which are key to their health and wellbeing – from work, sport and leisure to aspects of self-care.
This is a profession with a huge reach. It could mean adapting older adults living environments so they can stay in their own homes, devising strategies to assist people with dementia, helping patients adjust to life after a stroke or surgery, or ensuring children with disabilities can take a full part in school life or at play.
Our course equips you for the challenge. You’ll gain the practical, theoretical and interpersonal skills to help people with disabilities, illnesses and long-term conditions to overcome the obstacles that prevent them from reaching their full potential.
A career in occupational therapy delivers huge satisfaction – and that starts with your degree.
Beginning with a foundation year
On completion of the Foundation Year you will then commence study on the full
BSc (Hons) Occupational Therapy degree.
Studying BSc (Hons) Occupational Therapy with a Foundation Year is for you if you have the ability to study for a degree, but don’t have the necessary formal qualifications to enter directly on to the honours degree programme. It provides you with a firm grounding in the skills and knowledge you need and introduces you to the subject area, enabling you to achieve your full honours degree in four years.
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Occupational Therapy - your questions answered!
In the below video, Senior Lecturer, Dr Joan Howarth, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Occupational Therapy at the University of Derby.
View Occupational Therapy - your questions answered! video transcript
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
From day one you’ll get all the benefits of being a University of Derby student, plus extra support to help you build your knowledge, skills and confidence.
Our teaching team is made up of registered occupational therapists who have worked in a variety of settings. Practitioners from specialist areas in occupational therapy, ‘experts by experience’, patients and carers will also come into the University to share their insights with you.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Sian Burgess
Programme Leader
Sian Burgess
Sian is the Assistant Discipline lead and senior lecturer within the subject area of Occupational Therapy. Sian is a senior lecturer within the occupational therapy subject team which delivers both pre-registration occupational therapy...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
80
A Level
CDD
T Level
Pass (C or above in the core)
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study.
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
Additional entry requirements
Interview: Yes
view interview details
An
Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service certificate
cleared by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this once you have applied
An
Occupational Health Assessment
and Clearance by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this when required
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
N/A
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Travel and accommodation expenses associated with placements are to be met
Uniforms
Markers, name badges and ID holders
DBS Check
Health screening and vaccinations
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Costs related to placement, including accommodation, travel, car parking
Suitable footwear for skills sessions and placements approx. £40
Optional costs not included in your fees
Local travel in order to access community facilities approx. £30
Materials required for student facilitated group activities, approx. £15
Textbooks to supplement anything available through the library - various prices depending on content
Printing costs of course materials if a hard copy is desired approx. 5p per sheet
Student BAOT membership approx. £5 per month
Careers
Occupational therapy is an exciting and fulfilling career choice.
Upon completion of the BSc (Hons) Occupational Therapy degree you’ll be eligible to apply for registration as an occupational therapist with the Health and Care Professions Council and could progress to important roles in many areas of the NHS, such as:
Acute medical care
Paediatrics
Mental health and secure environments
You could also consider working in social services, charities and voluntary organisations, schools, prisons, companies and businesses, or in private practice.
Take your studies to the next level.
As a qualified occupational therapist, you will have excellent foundations for your career but you will undoubtedly want to build on your knowledge and strengthen your prospects as your progress in your role.
We offer a full range of professional development options to help you gain more advanced and specialist skills – from part-time stand-alone CPD modules which can be incorporated into your workplace practice through to postgraduate study up to doctoral level.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Discover Uni
Full-time