Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/occupational-therapy-courses/occupational-therapy-pre-registration-msc/

Occupational Therapy (Pre-registration) MSc - Occupational Therapy - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Occupational Therapy
Occupational Therapy (Pre-registration) MSc
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Occupational Therapy (Pre-registration)
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 2 years
UK fee
9,250 per year
(2024/25)
International fee
14,900 per year
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
MSc Occupational Therapy is now
closed for September 2024
entry due to limited available spaces for the programme.
Join the thousands who have benefited from Derby’s high-quality, distinctive and innovative Occupational Therapy courses. Ours was the first Occupational Therapy School set up under the auspices of the NHS back in 1948 so we have a strong heritage and reputation in this important field.
A worthwhile and rewarding career
As an occupational therapist, you’ll support people who have a range of difficulties to perform the everyday activities which are key to their health and wellbeing – from work, sport and leisure to aspects of self-care.
This is a profession with a huge reach. It could mean adapting older adults living environments so they can stay in their own homes, devising strategies to assist people with dementia, helping patients adjust to life after a stroke or surgery, or ensuring children with disabilities can take a full part in school life or at play.
Our course equips you for the challenge. You’ll gain the practical, theoretical and interpersonal skills to help people with disabilities, illnesses and long-term conditions to overcome the obstacles that prevent them from reaching their full potential.
A career in occupational therapy delivers huge satisfaction – and that starts with your degree.
A course with professional credibility
Our degree is designed to meet rigorous professional standards. It is accredited by the Royal College of Occupational Therapists, and approved by the World Federation of Occupational Therapists and the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC). When you graduate, you’ll be able to apply to the HCPC for registration to practice, as long as you meet the
HCPC’s requirements
.
We have exceptionally strong links with employers which open doors for you.
Hone your skills through practice-based learning
There are three periods of
practice-based learning
, which you usually undertake full time to enhance your skills in real-world settings. These are normally for ten weeks in the summer term of the first year and autumn term of the second year, with a twelve-week placement at the end of the second year.
Primarily in the East Midlands, the settings for practice-based learning range from the NHS and social services to the private and voluntary sectors. You’ll experience how occupational therapists work with people in different age groups and with different physical and mental health concerns. This builds the optimum range of skills for becoming a qualified practitioner and helps you make more informed decisions about your future career direction.
We find all three placements for you so we can ensure you’ll be supported by qualified occupational therapists who are trained to assess and develop your practical skills.
Placement hours are subject to change.
An inspiring learning environment
We offer superb
training facilities
for practical sessions in realistic settings. They include an NHS standard six-bed hospital ward and a
rehabilitation kitchen
.
We have also invested in the latest technology so that you can benefit from a variety of virtual and immersive environments which will enrich your learning experience.
Expertise, commitment and enthusiasm
You’ll be inspired by a dedicated and highly skilled teaching team. They are all registered and experienced occupational therapists who can give you insights into the many different aspects of the profession. Throughout your studies you’ll benefit from the support of a
personal tutor
too.
Our team is also research active so will keep you informed about the latest thinking and trends. We are involved in national special interest groups and have expertise in areas such as posture management, hand therapy, mental health recovery and working with patients who have dementia. You could even conduct noteworthy research yourself: some students have work featured in OT News and other leading publications.
In tune with new developments
This course is closely mapped against the needs of employers to ensure your learning is meaningful and relevant. In delivering the programme, we respond to national changes such as the latest government policies. As a result, some of the information about the course may change.
As health care is increasingly delivered by multi-professional teams, we offer inter-professional learning opportunities at each stage of the course so that you learn with, and from, students from other disciplines. This is really important in helping you understand how occupational therapists work in partnership with other professionals in different settings. By learning to work together, you can help achieve the best outcomes for patients and clients.
*MSc Occupational Therapy (Pre-Registration) contains various elements of the BSc Occupational Therapy course. So we recommend for you to get the most out of your experience with us that you book onto an undergraduate Open Day.*
A career in occupational therapy offers variety, purpose and immense job satisfaction. This Masters level qualification qualifies you for a rewarding profession where you can help people facing physical and mental challenges to overcome barriers to their independence.
Accelerate your career plans: because this programme is approved by the
Health and Care Professions Council
(HCPC), upon completion of the programme, you’ll be eligible to apply to register to practise as soon as you graduate, as long as you meet the HCPC’s requirements, and join a rewarding profession
Boost your professional credibility on a course accredited by the
Royal College of Occupational Therapists
and approved by the
World Federation of Occupational Therapists
Gain invaluable experience through practice-based learning which makes up almost half of the course
Learn from a dedicated and skilled team who have worked in a broad spectrum of occupational therapy roles
Improve your practical skills in our superb facilities ranging from a
rehabilitation kitchen
to virtual learning opportunities
Join the programme with a 2:1 or higher (other
entry requirements
apply)
100%
of students agreed that staff were good at explaining things
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2023
100%
of students agreed that staff were enthusiastic about what they teach
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2023
100%
of students agreed that the course is intellectually stimulating
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2023
Study Occupational Therapy at Derby. Our outstanding heritage, accessible and supportive lecturers and professional networks which help you find your dream job are just some of the reasons our students voted us one of the top courses in the UK in the National Student Survey.
With outstanding subject knowledge and a wealth of industry experience, our lecturers, including Karen Newberry, provide you with the opportunity to fulfil your potential:
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
On the MSc Occupational Therapy (pre-registration) you will cover core modules such as:
Stage one
You will explore the underpinning sciences, philosophies and theories of Occupational Therapy, and apply these to real life situations:
Placement 1
Placement 2
Evidence Based Practice, Research and Quality
Foundations for Professional Practice
Occupational Beings and Occupational Performance
Mandatory Training and Practical Skills for Practice
Assessments and Interventions
Practice-based learning
is a core element of this stage, and there will be opportunities for you to integrate theory and practice. And you’ll have opportunities to learn alongside students from other disciplines.
Stage two
Placement 3
Public, Global and Community Health
Professional Reasoning and Professional Identity
Independent Scholarship
In stage two, you will have opportunities to explore contemporary OT practice in more detail. The Independent Scholarship is an excellent opportunity to focus on area of practice in which you have specific interest.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
We use a variety of teaching and assessment methods.
For teaching this will include a blended approach of live sessions with tutors either in the classroom or online as well as tutor directed study in preparation for taught sessions and you will be expected to undertake your own self-directed study, as well as practical sessions and practice based learning modules.
Assessment is through a range of methods that are closely linked to the skills you’ll need for your future career and learning. This includes assessments such as written assignments, reports, oral presentations, practice based learning, and personal reflections.
We support you to prepare for these assessments in various ways including assignment tutorials and internet-based resources.
If you have additional needs, support is available centrally within the university on our
student support
page.
You will receive feedback on your work within three working weeks so that you can be learning and developing form the feedback before submitting your next assessment.
Timetables:
Timetables are normally available one month before registration. Please note that while we make every effort to ensure that timetables are as student-friendly as possible, scheduled teaching can take place on any day of the week and up to 9pm in an evening.
Work placements
There are three periods of
practice based learning
, where you’ll work full time in practice for a set number of weeks. Working in three separate areas of practice will ensure you have the optimum range of skills for becoming a qualified practitioner.
Our staff
Our teaching team is made up of registered occupational therapists who have worked in a variety of settings.  Practitioners from specialist areas in occupational therapy, ‘experts by experience’, patients and carers will also come into the University to share their insights with you.
Who will teach you
Helen Brown
Programme Leader
Helen Brown
As a Senior Lecturer in Occupational Therapy, Helen teaches across both pre-registration BSc and MSc Occupational Therapy programmes.  Helen is MSc in Occupational Therapy Programme Lead.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You will need a 2:1 Honours degree qualification or above (in a subject other than a pre-registration Occupational Therapy qualification).
Experience and references
Ideally you need to be familiar with more than one area in which occupational therapists may work . This could be through personal or shadowing experience but also from reading or research
You will need to provide a satisfactory reference from an education establishment, a previous employer or person of standing that should demonstrate ability to manage the academic demands of the programme, as well as personal suitability.
If you have previously studied any Health Professional Education Programme you will need to complete a self declaration that there were no previous concerns regarding fitness to practice.
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each skills area)
For information on pre-sessional English Language support please visit
Derby English Language Centre
.
Recognised Prior Learning
The University of Derby does offer the opportunity for
Recognition of Prior Learning
. Please
contact us
for further details.
Additional entry requirements
An
Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service certificate
cleared by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this once you have applied
An
Occupational Health Assessment
and Clearance by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this when required
Prior to undertaking Practice-based learning we will ensure you have completed an immunisation programme
As a University we have a strong
equality and diversity ethos
and therefore seek to admit a diverse student body locally, nationally, and internationally in terms of gender, ethnicity, age, social background, sexuality, learning differences, and disabilities.
Interview
You will be invited to a selection day which includes an interview.
Interview information
Additional online interview information
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
9,250 per year
N/A
International
14,900 per year
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional fee information
Please note
at postgraduate level, you'll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MSc
180 Credits
Further details on available funding is yet to be confirmed for the academic year of 2024-25. Please check back at a later date for more information.
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
9,250 per year
N/A
International
16,900 per year
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Uniforms
Name badges and ID holders
DBS Check
Health screening and vaccinations
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
For eligible students, costs associated with practice placement may be reimbursed through the NHS learning support fund. Costs related to placement include accommodation, travel, car parking
Suitable footwear for skills sessions and placements approx. £40
Optional costs not included in your fees
Local travel in order to access community facilities approx. £10
Materials required for student facilitated group activities approx. £10
Textbooks to supplement anything available through the library - various prices depending on the content
Printing costs of course materials if a hard copy is desired approx. 5p per sheet
Student BAOT membership approx. £5 per month
Professional HCPC membership required to practice. More details can be found
www.hcpc-uk.org
RCOT - membership optional but strongly advised
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Additional information
English language entry requirements must be achieved and evidenced as part of an application and before an interview can be offered for this programme.
Careers
When you graduate, you’ll be eligible to apply for registration as an occupational therapist with the
Health and Care Professions Council
, as long as you meet the HCPC’s requirements. You’ll then be able to apply for exciting and diverse career opportunities within occupational therapy.
You will be well placed within the employment market as a self-directed, reflective, proactive and initiative driven practitioner, capable of influencing the development of others and the profession. As this course is approved by the World Federation of Occupational Therapists, you’ll also be eligible to apply for registration to work overseas.
You could work with people of all ages facing different challenges in a wide range of settings such as:
Health services
Social services
Education
Care homes
Prison services
Charity sector
Legal services
Social enterprises
Schools and community
Independent practice
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Other courses you might like
Occupational Therapy BSc (Hons)