Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/operating-department-practitioner-apprenticeship/

Operating Department Practitioner Apprenticeship - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Operating Department Practitioner Apprenticeship
Apply now
Apply now
Apprenticeship Course
Operating Department Practitioner Degree Apprenticeship
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Course level
Level 6
Next course date
September, January and May intakes
Duration
3 years
Location
Online
Lecture/workshop days - dates/times
Study patterns to fit around the workplace.
Course description
Do you want to be part of a specialised and rewarding profession?
Our course will equip you with the skills to become a dynamic, confident and competent practitioner.
Operating Department Practitioners are multi-skilled allied health professionals working within all areas of the perioperative journey. Operating Department Practitioners are key members of the multidisciplinary team, working alongside surgeons, anaesthetists, nurses, radiographers, and other health professionals. On this HCPC-approved accelerated apprenticeship, you will gain the knowledge, skills, and behaviours required to provide safe, competent, patient-centred care through the three phases of the perioperative journey: anaesthetics, surgery and recovery.
You will develop your learning in five broad areas:
Professional Practice
Professional values and behaviours
Professional standards
Leadership and management
Communication and information
On successful completion of this Level 6 apprenticeship, you will gain a BSc (Hons) in Operating Department Practice, making you eligible to apply to the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) for registration.
Course highlights
Learn on a course with a 100% student satisfaction rate. (NSS, 2022)
State-of-the-art immersive clinical skills suite to practice skills in a safe environment
Taught by a team of enthusiastic, experienced registered Operating Department Practitioners
Unique to this course, the academic study takes place online
Our facilities
Immersive clinical skills suite
Mock diagnostic imaging suite
Mock hospital ward
NHS Standard mock hospital ward
Our six-bed hospital ward is complete with teaching facilities, a nurses' station, a patient bathroom, patient mobility equipment, and simulated-learning patients to provide a lifelike taste of working in a modern hospital.
Explore our NHS hospital ward
Explore our NHS hospital ward
Structure, certificates and assessment
This accelerated apprenticeship is a three-year course. Unique to this course, academic study takes place online, allowing for flexibility with self-directed study, coupled with an annual week's 'residential' week at the University of Derby where you will interact with your peers in our immersive clinical skills suite, take part in clinical simulation scenarios and attend lectures/teaching sessions taught by subject experts.
Modules are taught over three trimesters a year through online Collaborate sessions, webinars, and unit activities. You will be assessed using a variety of assessment methods to suit your learning needs, such as academic coursework/assignments, competencies, presentations, online examinations and VIVAS (Oral exams).
Each student has a personal academic tutor who is part of the core lecturing team to provide guidance to the student throughout the three years of the course and will have tripartite reviews with the student and workplace mentor at regular intervals to discuss the students' progress both academically and practically and identify any areas of additional support.
Additional support for learners who have dyslexia or additional learning needs.
What will you study?
Year one
Working and learning in Operating Department Practice (20 credits)
Principles of Scrub and Circulating Practice (20 credits)
Principles of Anaesthetic Practice (20 credits)
Science and Pharmacology for Operating Department Practice (20 credits)
Anatomy and Physiology for Operating Department Practice 1 (20 credits)
Patient Care Concepts (20 credits)
Year two
Developing Anaesthetic Practice (20 credits)
Evidence-Based Practice (20 credits)
Anatomy and Physiology for Operating Department Practice 2 (20 credits)
Practice in Post Anaesthetic Care (20 units)
Developing Scrub and Circulating Practice (20 credits)
Exploring Leadership and Management in Operating Department Practice (20 credits)
Year three
Complex Perioperative Care (20 credits)
Work-Based Study - Dissertation (40 credits)
Facilitating Learning and Assessment (20 credits)
Management of Medication (20 credits)
Transition to Practice Beyond Registration (20 credits)
Perfect timing as Georgia retrains via hospital apprenticeship
Georgia Wood’s timing was perfect. The hospital worker was looking to pursue her passion and retrain as an Operating Department Practitioner - just as her employer was looking for ODP Apprentices - she applied straight away.
Learn more about Georgia's story
Learn more about Georgia's story
Entry requirements
5 GCSEs (or equivalent) at grades A-C or 4-9 -
must
include Mathematics and English or the equivalent level 2
112 UCAS points -
or
Level 3 qualification
Valid DBS on starting the programme
Evidence of recent study
Ability to meet the occupational health requirements of the programme
If applying as a candidate for whom English is a second language, the applicant should hold an overall IELTS score of at least 7.0 with no elements below 6.5
Fees and funding
Fees are paid by the employer.
More information for employers
The cost of this apprenticeship will normally be in line with the funding band £26,000, but we'll consider individual agreements depending on student numbers and your involvement.
How to apply
Apprenticeships for this
programme
need to be applied for through an advertising employer
. However, you can find out more from us - please see below for contact information.
Contact us
Apprenticeship Hub
Email:
apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk
Phone:
01332 593092
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Other courses you might like
Assistant Practitioner Higher Apprenticeship
Request more information about our apprenticeship programmes
Want to talk to a member of the team about our apprenticeship programmes? Make an enquiry and a member of our team will get in contact with to provide you with more information about our apprenticeships, and how our programmes can up-skill your workforce.
Request more information about apprenticeships
Request more information about apprenticeships