Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/organisation-wide-approaches-to-quality/

Organisation Wide Approaches to Quality - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Organisation Wide Approaches to Quality
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Organisation Wide Approaches to Quality
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Module details
Module code
7NU522
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
September and January
Duration
5 months
Location
St Helena, Chesterfield
Module description
About this module
This module includes clinical and corporate governance with an emphasis on relating what happens in your area of practice to the wider organisation. It will support you to make an informed contribution to the current debates about quality and apply this to a particular situation. This enables you to take a more pro-active approach within your own area of work to benefit yourself, your patients /clients and your employing organisation.
The module will explore the relevant literature in relation to current policy initiatives and real situations, both national and local. Key content includes theoretical approaches to organisational quality, patient safety, the quality assurance cycle, clinical and corporate governance, commissioning for quality, the impact of quality failures, critical incidents and root cause analysis, case study analysis.
Who is this course for
All health and social care professionals, nursing; physiotherapists; podiatrists; paramedic, occupational therapy, pharmacists, ultrasonography
Course team
Jill Gould
; Senior Lecturer; District Nurse; Module leader.
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Critically analyse current approaches to clinical and corporate governance
Critically evaluate the organisation wide approach to quality in a particular situation.
Explore aspects of organisations quality systems in relation to the literature and other organisations. This will enable you to make an informed contribution to the current debates about quality and take a more pro-active approach within the workplace.
Entry requirements
To undertake this module at Level 7, you must:
Demonstrate the ability to study at academic level 7 (post-graduate level)
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.