Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/online/free-courses/organisational-culture-and-person-centred-approaches-to-care/

Organisational Culture and Person-Centred Approaches to Care - Free courses - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Online short courses
Free courses
Organisational Culture and Person-Centred Approaches to Care
Book now
Book now
Short course
Organisational Culture and Person-Centred Approaches to Care
Book now
Book now
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Online course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Learning outcomes
Course requirements
Online course details
Price
FREE
Next course date
Open now
Duration
8 hours
CPD hours
8 CPD hours
Delivery
Self-guided online learning
Location
Online
Online course description
Person-Centred Care (PCC) is becoming increasingly important within the health and social care sector due to drivers such as the NHS Long Term Plan (2019).
This Organisational Culture and Person-Centred Approaches to Care massive open online course (MOOC) aims to help you develop an organisational culture which supports delivery of excellent person-centred care. It looks at key areas such as communication, customer service, work-place culture and productivity, leadership styles and change management.
You’ll gain an understanding of what is meant by Person-Centred Care (PCC) and how cultural changes together with person-centred approaches have a positive impact on PCC whilst learning about the link between culture, productivity, quality of care and PCC. On finishing the course, you will leave with useful tools and models to use in quality improvement activities in the workplace.
Qualified health and social care professionals, those working in domicillary care or residential care, and assistant practitioners, may find the MOOC useful to support them to advise and guide more junior colleagues, students, and trainees in approaches to delivering person-centred care. It may also help and support qualified professionals and carers to have conversations with junior colleagues, students, and trainees about some of the challenges to person-centred care delivery, such as organisational culture and workforce productivity pressures.
If you are a qualified health or social care professional preparing for your revalidation with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) or the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) Continuing Professional Development (CPD) audit, this course will benefit you too.
The MOOC may help people working in leadership, management or governance roles within health and social care to design quality improvement projects which support improved organisational culture and the delivery of person-centred care.
Students studying to become health or social care professionals, medical students, trainee assistant practitioners, and volunteers working in health and social care, may find units 1-6 of the MOOC useful to develop your understanding of person-centred care, communication, customer service, as well as workplace culture and workforce productivity pressures, and the impact these have upon delivery of person-centred care. The MOOC provides practical advice and guidance to support students and trainees to develop their person-centred skills. It is likely that units 7-8 will be less relevant for students, trainees and volunteers, but you are very welcome to complete these if you wish.
The course was originally designed to support organisational culture and person-centred care training for Staffordshire and Stoke-on-Trent Integrated Care System, and funded by Health Education England. Now that the delivery of this training is complete, the commissioners and Health Education England have kindly agreed for the materials to be repurposed for this MOOC.
Who is this course for?
Qualified health or social care professionals, such as Nurses, Midwives, Physiotherapists, Speech & Language Therapists, Occupational Therapists, Operating Department Practitioners, Paramedics, Radiographers, Social Workers and many more
Qualified Assistant Practitioners
Carers working in domiciliary services, or residential home settings
People working in leadership and management roles within health and social care services, such as Practice Managers, Care Home Managers, Volunteer Coordinators
Students studying to become health or social care professionals
Trainee Assistant Practitioners
Medical Students
Volunteers working in health and social care services
Structure, certificates and assessment
An accredited provider of the CPD Standards Office
We are proud to be an accredited provider of the
CPD Standards Office
for our online short courses and free courses, demonstrating that they conform to CPD best practice and are appropriate for inclusion in a formal CPD record.
Course units
Unit 1 - What is person-centred care?
This unit will introduce the concept of person-centred care (PCC). We will consider the nature of interactions in health and social care and the ways that health and social care professionals can deliver PCC.
Unit 2 - The importance of good communication
Good communication with individuals and their carers is the cornerstone of person-centred care (PCC). In this section, we will consider what good communication looks and sounds like.
Unit 3 - Creating a customer service culture
This unit will explore how you can embed the principles of good customer care within your individual setting to create a culture that is responsive to and shaped by excellence in person-centred care (PCC).
Unit 4 - Creating a positive workplace culture
This unit will explore how to create a positive workplace culture, as well as the links between a positive workplace culture and the delivery of person-centred care (PCC). The unit will draw upon resources available on the Skills for Care website, so some of the content may be familiar to you already. If this is the case, please feel free to move through the unit quickly and go straight to the activities.
Unit 5 - The workforce productivity and quality model
Workforce productivity has been a key area of focus for
Skills for Care
(2021), with the aim of increased productivity and improving the standard of care. We will therefore consider workforce productivity, and the links it has with person-centred care (PCC), in this unit.
Unit 6 - Developing your leadership style
In this unit, the focus will be on the important role of leadership in delivering person-centred care. It will help you to understand your own leadership style, how you can inspire others as a role model and how to build a culture of engagement and high performance, which will, by default, impact person-centred care (PCC) in a positive way.
Unit 7 - Change management
The change is ever present within health and social care settings, and, as established in Unit 6, leaders need to be agile and proactive to be successful in managing change, understanding the need for the change, creating a vision and implementing the change. In this unit we will consider how to manage change to support person-centred care (PCC) delivery.
Unit 8 - The Model for Improvement and PDSA cycle
This unit will provide an insight into how quality improvement can influence person-centred care (PCC) and consider the links to productivity, quality and PCC.
Learning outcomes
On completing the course, you’ll be able to:
Explain how you demonstrate the principles of PCC in your practice and suggest ways to break down barriers to PCC
Consider verbal and non-verbal communication skills, and customer service principles, in order use them to positively impact on PCC
Assess the impact of workplace culture and workplace productivity pressures and consider how to mitigate these to support delivery of high-quality PCC
Demonstrate confidence in using quality improvement tools to improve PCC in your own practice and in your organisation (if relevant to your role)
Course requirements
How to enrol
All of our free courses are delivered through an easy-to-use online learning platform, which you can enrol from directly.
What you will need
The course is free and widely available for anyone to take part in regardless of age, location or education status. You will need to agree to the terms and conditions before you start the course which will be available when you enrol.
However, there are some basic requirements. You will need access to the internet whether it is on your PC, tablet, mobile or other electronic devices, as well as a valid email address to register with our online learning environment in order to take part in the course.
Once registered, please be aware that all study for this course is online and so you will need to be able to engage with this via a personal device, preferably a computer or laptop, for the stated duration of the course.
The learning platform is compatible with screen reader technology to assist those with visual impairments.
Allied Health Professionals in Person Centred Care Webinar
If you are an AHP or are interested to learn more about the role of AHPs in delivering person-centred care, then take a look at this one hour recorded webinar to hear from Dr Emma Hyde as we looked at the unique contribution of AHP’s to person-centred care.
View webinar
View webinar
Who will teach you
Dr Emma Hyde
Programme leader
Dr Emma Hyde is an Associate Professor in Learning, Teaching and Pedagogy at the University of Derby.
Emma is a qualified HCPC registered Diagnostic Radiographer. Before joining the University in 2006, Emma worked as a Diagnostic Radiographer in the NHS for approximately 10 years, specialising in CT and MRI scanning.
View full staff profile
View full staff profile
Contact us
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Course policies
Learner charter
Terms and conditions
Other courses you might like
Pressure Ulcer Prevention
Bridging the Dementia Divide
Patient Centred Care in Diagnostic Radiography: An Educational Toolkit
Radiographic Image Analysis of the Appendicular Skeleton