Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/nursing-courses/perioperative-practice-top-up-bsc-hons-online/

Perioperative Practice (Top-Up) BSc (Hons) - Nursing - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Nursing
Perioperative Practice (Top-Up) BSc (Hons)
Apply now
Apply now
Undergraduate Course
Perioperative Practice (Top-Up)
BSc (Hons)
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 1-2 years
UK fee
£5,250
(2024/25)
‡
International fee
£5,250
(2024/25)
‡
Start dates
September, January, May
Location
Online
The UK's first online Perioperative Practice BSc (Hons) Top-Up degree to be endorsed by the Association for Perioperative Practice (AfPP), this course can help you to develop the skills and expertise needed to transform your practice as a health care professional working in a perioperative setting.
Operating departments require transferable skills sets, as the need to work across other areas such as emergency departments, intensive care units, obstetric units and in the ambulance service has increased.
This course is endorsed by the
Association for Perioperative Practice (AfPP)
.
Who is the online Perioperative Practice BSc (Hons) Top-Up aimed at?
This course is ideal for anyone working in a perioperative practice setting including:
Operating Department Practitioners (ODPs)
Registered Nurses (RN)
Operating theatre professionals
Military staff working in perioperative environments
Why choose the Perioperative Practice BSc (Hons) Top-Up course?
As an ODP, RN or healthcare professional working within a perioperative setting, you know that your role can be challenging and dynamic, providing care to often acutely unwell patients undergoing surgery.
This top-up course focuses on specialising practice, leadership and education, and research and evidence-based practice which are all key curriculum areas not generally covered sufficiently by pre-registration preparatory programmes. By studying the programme, you will develop a deep understanding of the advanced perioperative theories and specialist skills required to work within a perioperative setting.
This focused attention on theory linked to specialised areas of practice will encourage the development of higher order thinking and the ability to transfer skills where required in the critical care areas. You will develop an analytical approach to practice enabling you to access career progression and more specialist roles. You will also be able to reflect on and consolidate your own practice since registration.
As a BSc (Hons) Perioperative Practice graduate, you will have the ability to inspire others and lead practice in your own area with leadership being a core learning aspect throughout the course.
100%
agree that the course has challenged them to achieve their best work
University of Derby Survey 2022
100%
agree that they feel confident they will succeed at university
University of Derby Survey 2022
93%
agree that teaching staff are good at explaining things
National Student Survey 2023
Develop competence and capability with our virtual one-day conference
In health and social care, the necessity for an interprofessional team to work together competently and effectively to deliver the very best care, places significant responsibility on members of the team to have and maintain crucial skills and knowledge for such interaction.
This programme incorporates a zero-credit module titled
Developing Competence and Capability
which consists of a virtual conference, and will provide you with rich learning opportunities to successfully meet the requirements of this programme.
Build on your Diploma to achieve a Bachelor’s degree
As a qualified ODP, Registered Nurse or registered health professional with a diploma (level 5) academic qualification, this top-up degree enables you to gain a bachelors qualification in 12 months. Becoming degree qualified will give you further confidence in your career and the employability attributes which can be applied to senior perioperative roles in the management and leadership of safe patient surgery.
What you will study
This course will prepare you as a practitioner within perioperative care to demonstrate critical competence in clinical practice, care management, clinical practice leadership and clinical practice development. You will also develop comprehensive subject specific and transferable skills and knowledge appropriate for critical evaluation, independent study, professional development and work-focused study. Within each module you will also identify and propose recommendations to enhance service delivery and provision of perioperative care.
You can
view the study plan for this online course
.
If we have insufficient numbers of students interested in an optional module, this may not be offered. In addition, where demand is high, some modules may be subject to a cap.
To gain the award for BSc (Hons) Perioperative Practice you will need to complete a total of 120 credits (6 core, 20 credit modules) and complete Developing Competence and Capability (0 credit module).
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
Pace of study
The academic year is made up of three 10-week terms, known as trimesters. We recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete one 20-credit module over a 10-week trimester.
If you opt to undertake the accelerated study plan whereby you will study two modules in one trimester, we recommend 40 hours of study per week.
Should you decide to study on the accelerated rate you should ensure that you have the capacity to fully engage with your studies and achieve the best grades and final award. If you choose to study on the accelerated rate, you will need to balance approximately 40 hours of study per week alongside your professional and personal life and commitments.
It may be useful to consider studying one module at the standard rate of study before deciding whether to then increase to the accelerated rate of study.
There will be 1/2 virtual classrooms over the 10 week trimester and if you are unable to attend you will be able to download the session to view in your own time.
Assessment method
This course is assessed through 100% coursework with a range of methods, such as essays, research reports, presentations, group work and practical reports.
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Who will teach you
Sylwia Tichanow
Programme Leader
Sylwia Tichanow
Slywia is a qualified as an Operating Department Practitioner who joined the University of Derby in January 2022, to teach and lead on the online nursing and perioperative practice modules. Since January 2023, she has lead the Perioper...
View full staff profile
→
Explore all teaching staff on this course
Get a taste of the course content
Our Perioperative Practice (Top-Up) BSc (Hons) course taster will give you an idea of how online learning works. It includes a selection of content from a course module so you can see what some of our learning material looks like.
You will need to complete a short form to access the course taster.
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Entry requirements
The course is suitable for all Operating Department Practitioners and Registered Nurses who work in a perioperative setting.
If you are an Operating Department Practitioner (or equivalent) you are required to:
have a Diploma of Higher Education, City and Guilds 752, NVQ level 3 or Cert HE in Operating Department Practice or equivalent
have been working in a perioperative setting for a minimum of one year, which will be evidenced through an employer reference and supporting statement
possess current and unrestricted registration with the Health and Care Professionals Council or an international equivalent
if English is not your first language, an IELTS of 7.0 (or equivalent) in all areas is required*
if you are an international student, normally your qualification will need to be mapped to the UK equivalent course to ensure that you are entering the programme with at least 120 academic credits at level 5
A professional reference on letter headed paper stating your job role and how long you have been in the position and signed by a manager or HR department. You will also need to
provide the following documents
when you apply.
If you are a Registered Nurse you are required to:
have a Diploma of Higher Education or Advanced Diploma of Higher Education in Nursing
have been working in a perioperative setting for a minimum of one year, which will be evidenced through an employer reference and supporting statement
possess current and unrestricted registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council or an international equivalent
if English is not your first language, an IELTS of 7.0 (or equivalent) in all areas is required*
if you are an international student, normally your qualification will need to be mapped to the UK equivalent course to ensure that you are entering the programme with at least 120 academic credits at level 5
A professional reference on letter headed paper stating your job role and how long you have been in the position and signed by a manager or HR department. You will also need to
provide the following documents
when you apply.
Non-standard entrants:
If your qualifications do not match the criteria above, you are a ‘non-standard’ entrant and you may be required to submit evidence of experience or have an interview with the academic lead for the course, before being offered a place as a direct entrant to ensure that you have the necessary capacity for critical awareness and reflection.
For applicants for whom English is not a first language, the minimum English language qualifications acceptable is IELTS level 7.0*
If you have not studied at this level before or it has been a considerable time since your last University-level study we may ask you to complete the
Certificate of Credit in Health and Social Care Studies
prior to commencing this course. The Certificate of Credit in Health and Social Care encourages professional development, self-awareness, critical reflection, and will enable you to succeed at this level of study.
*We may accept other equivalent English Language qualifications with supporting evidence so please provide full details with your application.
Find out more about our English language requirements
Recognition of Prior Learning
Due to the coherent and integrated nature of this programme,
Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL)
can only be offered for the Educating in Health and Social Care module. No other modules are eligible.
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£875
6
£5,250
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£905
6
£5,430
About your fees
This figure would be the total cost of this course based on the fee in the current academic year. However, please note that fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase if your course lasts longer than one year.
If you are required to undertake any associate study or additional study as a condition of your offer for the programme, please be aware that the cost for this may be in addition to the programme cost stated above.
Flexible payment plans available
Choose from
two payment plan options
:
Pay monthly and only for the modules you are studying
Pay your full course fees upfront and avoid annual increases
Undergraduate funding options
Depending on where you are from in the UK or EU, and on your pace of study, you may be eligible for an
undergraduate student loan
. Accessible through Student Finance, this is a non-income based loan to meet the cost of tuition fees.
If you are considering applying for a student loan, please also see our additional guidance on
Loans for Online Students
.
If you already hold an honours degree, and you are looking to re-skill or up-skill, you may still be eligible for a loan to study this course.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
NMC PIN or HCPC Registration or relevant equivalent health regulator
Written reference supplied on headed paper from either a manager, supervisor, tutor or teacher
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Application deadlines
All of our online courses have set start dates throughout the year. We require time to review your application and get back to you with a response before your course starts. Take a look at
information regarding applying for an online course
to see full details of deadlines and term dates.
Careers
During your studies, you will have the opportunity to participate in a wide range of activities, projects and assessments. Each of these are designed to contribute towards an enhancement of your employability, and you are able to use these to build a portfolio of work which could be demonstrated to any future employer.
Through studying this course you will gain valuable industry knowledge that you can apply directly into your role in health and social care. Completion of this course will also give you the level 6 qualification needed to operate within a perioperative setting.
This course is ideal if you are looking for career progression, to enhance management and leadership skills and to enable yourself to demonstrate a critical, evidence-based approach to perioperative practice.
Whilst undertaking this programme you will already be employed in a variety of perioperative settings locally, nationally or internationally. However the knowledge and skills gained from studying this programme will enhance your ability to develop your career and enrich professional practice. Furthermore the programme can enhance your academic ambitions such as progressing on to Masters or Doctoral level studies.
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
Nursing Studies (Top-Up) BSc (Hons)
Integrative Health and Social Care (Top-Up) BSc (Hons)
Anaesthetic Practice Certificate of Continuing Professional Development
Surgical First Assistant​ Certificate of Credit