Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/personal-and-professional-development/

Personal and Professional Development - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Personal and Professional Development
Apply now
Apply now
Professional Course
Personal and Professional Development
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
How to apply
Module details
Module code
6CL505
Module level
Level 6
Next course date
September
Duration
One academic year
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Module description
About this module
We aim to offer the opportunities by providing formative as well as summative processes. You will complete a position statement towards the end of the first semester which will be discussed in your small group and individual tutorial and used to identify specific goals for the following semester.
Who is this course for
All health and social care professionals and people working with families
Course team
All members of the course team are both experienced higher education educators and practising Senior Family Therapists in the field of Children’s and Adults mental health. We have skills knowledge and experience of working with current evidenced practice based models and developing research.
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Explore and give an account of your personal learning process over time.
Begin to demonstrate self-reflexivity in relation to your professional, personal family and cultural experiences, from a systemic perspective.
Entry requirements
A practice base in which to apply the ideas
An ability to study at degree level
In most instances a core profession such as e.g. Nursing, Social work, Medicine, although if you do not hold such a qualification please do speak to a member of the course team.
How to apply
Level 6
LBR applications
If you are applying for an LBR funded place, please Apply directly to the University.
Find out more about LBR and whether you are eligible for an LBR Level 6 course
Apply directly to the University
Self-funded applications
If you are financing your study yourself, please contact Admissions on
01332 591167
or email
askadmissions@derby.ac.uk
to secure your place
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.