Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/photography-courses/photography-ba-hons/

Photography BA (Hons) - Photography - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Photography
Photography BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Photography
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 Years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
104
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
W650
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
With its outstanding reputation for nurturing new talent, this course will help you become a highly creative, technically experienced professional photographer. You’ll develop imaginative approaches to photography which will set you apart within the creative, media and arts industries. You will be encouraged to challenge conventions, break moulds and create your own distinctive identity as a well-informed and highly creative thinker and image maker.
The School of Arts has a long-standing reputation for excellence in the field of photography. Our state of the art facilities are the envy of many experienced professional photographers. We offer a free equipment loan centre for students, full of high-spec analogue and digital equipment. Take a look round our facilities using our
virtual tour
.
We were one of the first UK institutions to launch a photography degree and boast over half a century of heritage in photographic education. You’ll draw on that proud tradition while working at the cutting edge of technology. You’ll learn from experienced professionals and tutors of the highest calibre, using extensive, darkroom and digital facilities. Live briefs set by external clients, gallery visits, overseas study trips, exhibitions, festivals and competitions will bring an exciting dimension to your studies.
Top
25
for student satisfaction
Drama, Dance and Cinematics subject area, Complete University Guide 2025
Top
25
for student experience
Drama, Dance and Cinematics subject area, Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
2
nd
for career prospects
Film Production & Photography - Guardian University Guide 2025
Top
5
for learning resources
Cinematics and Photography - National Student Survey 2024
The facilities, specifically the dark rooms, Digital Design Hub, and Media Loan Hub, are fantastic. The lecturers and technicians go above and beyond and always give sound advice and guidance.
Abi Wells
BA (Hons) Photography
Studying Photography at Derby
This course will take you on a creative journey exploring what photography has been, what it is now and what it can be in the very widest sense.
The programme will support, encourage and challenge you to expand upon the conventions of photography and develop the confidence, ambitions, skills and abilities to produce work and forge your own identity as a maker and thinker of images for the future.
The programme blends creative and experimental approaches to photographic image making across the widest range of media with high level skills in research, critical thinking, communication, methods of presentation, exhibition and dissemination, and skills in digital technologies that will prove essential in life beyond your degree. There are no boundaries to what photography can be. You will be encouraged to explore and exceed the limits of photography throughout the creative journey of your degree.
We will foster your passion, support your aims and guide your ambitions to equip you with the skills, knowledge, awareness and experiences required to become a sought-after professional, enabling you to forge a bright future in the creative sector and beyond.
Throughout your studies you will engage with and explore a wide range of traditional analogue and contemporary digital media. You will be introduced to time based and moving image media and be able to explore installation, sculptural and performance approaches, and the hybridisation of photography by combining media to blend and create new forms and uses of image making.
This degree finishes with a professional final exhibition at our Degree Show, where you'll have the opportunity to make vital industry contacts at the Private View evening. You could also continue your studies by taking our
MA Arts
course. Please note, minimum entry criteria includes everything in an application, including a strong personal statement, a good reference and where asked for, a portfolio.
Students will have the opportunity to apply to exhibit their work for
Format
International Photography Festival, the UK's leading international contemporary festival of photography and related media.
Degree Show work
Take a look at BA (Hons) Photography brochure for the Degree Show 2019,
BA (Hons) Photography In the Making catalogue 2019
, and take a look at BA (Hons) Photography graduate Danielle Shambley's 2018 final project,
'Eructate: The 90th Year'.
BA Photography In the Making catalogue 2019
Take a look at BA (Hons) Photography catalogue for the degree show 2019,
BA (Hons) Photography In the Making catalogue 2019
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
This course involves an inspirational combination of learning and teaching methods. Technical workshops will develop the full range of photographic skills, including black and white, colour, digital, CGI and 3D. There are also lectures to introduce new concepts and knowledge; seminars to enable group discussions; critiques for constructive feedback; small group tutorials to encourage the development of ideas; individual tutorials to monitor your progress and clarify your artistic direction; group research activities to encourage team working; and individual presentations to help you develop communication skills.
Your learning will be supported by a programme of guest lectures, contact with our high-profile visiting professors, regular gallery visits, and the chance to take part in prestigious competitions and festivals. These include the acclaimed
FORMAT International Photography Festival
which is hosted and organised jointly by the University and
QUAD
. You will also have the opportunity to work on the FORMAT International Conference, organised by the academic staff on the programme.
You’ll also benefit from our partnerships with various leading professional organisations and employers. These pave the way for you to go on study visits, gain work experience, and contribute to live briefs. We have links with the FORMAT, Association of Photographers, GRAIN Photography Hub, Derby Museum and Art Galleries, Magnum Photos, MAC Birmingham, ESMAD Porto, The Art Institute of Las Vegas, to name but a few.
The course culminates in a professional final exhibition at our annual Degree Show, where you’ll have the opportunity to showcase your final work to a public audience.
Assessment is by 100% coursework: your submissions of photographic work will be supported by an artist’s statement and opportunities to discuss the progression of your projects.
Photography lab
The Photography lab at Markeaton Street has outstanding facilities that are the envy of many experienced professional photographers and artists.
Take a look at the lab
Take a look at the lab
Photography tour
Discover what it's like being a student studying Photography at the University of Derby.
Facilities
Recent years have seen significant developments in the imaging sector, thanks to the growth and speed of digital technologies. At Derby, you’ll be equipped to harness both new and existing technologies in our high-specification facilities.
You’ll hone your skills in an excellent learning environment featuring extensive photographic studios, black and white and colour darkrooms, film processing facilities, dedicated digital suites, and Mac suites offering industry-standard software.
We also have a bureau for professional printing of high-quality colour-accurate images and a well-stocked equipment centre from which you can loan an array of specialist resources.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Gemma Marmalade
Programme Leader
Dr Gemma Marmalade
Dr. Gemma Marmalade is Assistant Head of Discipline to Art and Photography in the School of Art; Programme Leader for BA Hons. Photography; an internationally exhibited artist, researcher, and award-winning academic specialising in exp...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
104
A Level
BCC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
Offers will be made initially based on your application, including predicted grades and/or grades you have already achieved. You may be given the opportunity, within your offer letter, to submit a portfolio. If you submit a strong portfolio we will make you an unconditional offer, to reflect the quality of your work and your potential.
Additional entry requirements
Portfolio: Recommended -
view portfolio details
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Provision of photographic film and paper for inductions for stage 1 modules
Access to talks and presentations by industry speakers
Access to specialist equipment, facilities and technical support
Access to specialist digital facilities with a wide range of up to date software
Participation in FORMAT International Photography Festival
Participation in the Degree Show for stage 3
Access to excellent learning resources, libraries and specialist laboratories and studios
The programme uses Adobe Creative Suite which is installed on all Macs in MS102 and MS012 at Markeaton Street and students are provided with an individual Adobe Creative Cloud subscription for home use
To support their professional and skills development, students are provided with a subscription to LinkedIn Learning which offers over 13,000 courses and tutorials, including professional accreditations, in a wide range of creative, business & technology disciplines
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Additional materials (printing, stationery, portfolio, folders, USBs/hard drives etc.) (approx. costs - Year 1= £200, Year 2 = £250, Year 3 = £300)
There will be occasions when you will be expected to attend external exhibitions, talks, workshops. Costs will be kept to a minimum and are estimated at around £40/annum
UK study visits (at least one per academic year) approximate cost of each study visit is between £20 and £40, depending on the activity/location
Optional costs not included in your fees
Additional course related publications (approx. costs £100)
Specialist materials/software/hardware (£200-£800, depending on your ambitions and requirements)
Final year project costs (£200-£800 depending on your ambitions and requirements)
Travel for work placement opportunities (costs will vary dependant on location)
Extra costs may include UK and overseas residential visits (approx. cost £200-£400)
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
The course places an emphasis on critical thinking, research, writing and oral communication, teamwork and problem-solving skills. As such, you will be well equipped for diverse roles across the photo-imaging sector and beyond, making excellent use of transferable skills.
Our graduates have gone on to become artists, academics, teachers, curators, critics, professional photographers, editorial photographers, picture editors. Here are what some of our graduates are doing now:
Idris Kahn OBE, leading UK artist
Jenny Anderson, Director, Argentea Gallery
Nicola Shipley, director GRAIN Photography Hub
Michael Sargeant, On-line Education Manager, MAGNUM Photos
John McLean, leading photographic artist and architectural photographer
Steve Edwards, leading editorial photographer for UK and US publications
Bethany Kane, Programming Officer FORMAT Photography Festival
In addition, there is the option to take your skills to the next level on our
MA Arts
.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Photography with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Film and High-end Television Production BA (Hons)
MA Arts (pathways in Fine Art or Photography)
Chat to our students
−