Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/photography-courses/commercial-photography-ba-hons/

Photography (Commercial) BA (Hons) - Photography - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Photography
Photography (Commercial) BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Photography (Commercial)
BA (Hons)*
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
* This course is
subject to validation
✕
What does ‘subject to validation’ mean?
We are continually looking at enhancing our courses to ensure they are up to date and relevant. This means we may add new courses or update existing courses in our portfolio. As this happens, the courses are advertised as ‘subject to validation’ to make you aware that the course you are looking at may not yet be finalised, or is undergoing changes.
Any course listed as ‘subject to validation’ is in the final stages of approval. Validation is a rigorous process undertaken with academic staff, students, independent subject experts and employers to ensure the course is current, of high quality, and able to prepare students well for their future employment or further study.
Success through validation is not guaranteed, which is why courses are highlighted as ‘subject to validation’. In the event the course is significantly amended, or does not meet the necessary requirements for a successful validation, we will get in touch to support you in finding a suitable alternative, either at the University of Derby or at another provider.
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
W640
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
The BA Photography (Commercial) programme provides a uniquely progressive and ethically responsible take on the future of commercial photography practice and its associated industries. Through learning the technical needs to develop and work professionally in the field, students will commit to innovating beyond existing, conventional commercial practices to set new standards of visual language that advocates for contemporary and future-visioning clients.
Students benefit from this degree being one of very few specifically commercial photography programmes in Britain that offers the opportunity to work professionally from the outset. Students are encouraged to take on commercial photographic work and are given the opportunity to incorporate that work into their portfolio development throughout their studies. Specialist mentoring will be given throughout the process, from building a professional identity, marketing and media, initial dealings with clients, pitch deck presentations, production and management of work, key communication and engagement skills, to final presentation of that work to the client or given audience.
The programme is delivered through a combination of practice-led workshops alongside lectures, seminars, tutorial support, and national and international study visits. Whilst progressing through their studies, students work with the support of both actively working and researching photographic lecturers and industry professionals. Through engaging in exciting and intensive periods of risk-taking and creative explorations, students grow as autonomous practitioners and independent professionals with highly distinctive approaches that separate them from typical industry expectations.
BA Photography (Commercial) draws upon the celebrated legacy of the Derby School of Photography, the very first location for photography education in the UK. The programme works in tandem with other programmes across art, design and technology and in association with
FORMAT International Photography Festival
founded in Derby in 2004. The programme is recognised and supported by the professional photographic body, AOP (Association of Photographers).
Top
5
for learning resources
Cinematics and Photography - National Student Survey 2024
Photography lab
The Photography lab at Markeaton Street has outstanding facilities that are the envy of many experienced professional photographers and artists.
Take a look at the lab
Take a look at the lab
The facilities, specifically the dark rooms, Digital Design Hub, and Media Loan Hub, are fantastic. The lecturers and technicians go above and beyond and always give sound advice and guidance.
Abi Wells
BA (Hons) Photography
Photography tour
Discover what it's like being a student studying Photography at the University of Derby.
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
You will study modules such as:
Year 1
Exploring Analogue Photography
Exploring Digital Photography
Histories of Photography
Theories of Photography
Year 2
Expanded Studio
Innovating the Image
Keeping Good Company
Portfolio for the Future
The Persuasive Image
Year 3
Portfolio for the Future
The Persuasive Image
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
The programme is delivered through a combination of practice-led workshops alongside lectures, seminars, tutorial support, national and international study visits. Whilst progressing through their studies, students work with the support of both actively working and researching photographic lecturers and industry professionals. Through engaging in exciting and intensive periods of risk-taking and creative explorations, students grow as autonomous practitioners and independent professionals with highly distinctive approaches that separate them from typical industry expectations.
How you are assessed
Assessment is by 100% coursework: your submissions of photographic work will be supported by an artist’s statement and opportunities to discuss the progression of your projects.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Gemma Marmalade
Programme Leader
Dr Gemma Marmalade
Dr. Gemma Marmalade is Assistant Head of Discipline to Art and Photography in the School of Art; Programme Leader for BA Hons. Photography; an internationally exhibited artist, researcher, and award-winning academic specialising in exp...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.5 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Provision of photographic film and paper for inductions for stage 1 modules
Access to talks and presentations by industry speakers
Access to specialist equipment, facilities and technical support
Access to specialist digital facilities with a wide range of up to date software
Participation in FORMAT International Photography Festival
Participation in the Degree Show for stage 3
Access to excellent learning resources, libraries and specialist laboratories and studios
The programme uses Adobe Creative Suite which is installed on all Macs in MS102 and MS012 at Markeaton Street and students are provided with an individual Adobe Creative Cloud subscription for home use
To support their professional and skills development, students are provided with a subscription to LinkedIn Learning which offers over 13,000 courses and tutorials, including professional accreditations, in a wide range of creative, business & technology disciplines
Optional costs not included in your fees
Additional course related publications (approx. costs £100)
Specialist materials/software/hardware (£200-£800, depending on your ambitions and requirements)
Final year project costs (£200-£800 depending on your ambitions and requirements)
Travel for work placement opportunities (costs will vary dependant on location)
Extra costs may include UK and overseas residential visits (approx. cost £200-£400)
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
This course is not currently accepting applications, please check back at later date to make an application for September 2025.
Careers
The course places an emphasis on critical thinking, research, writing and oral communication, teamwork and problem-solving skills. As such, you will be well equipped for diverse roles across the photo-imaging sector and beyond, making excellent use of transferable skills.
Our graduates have gone on to become artists, academics, teachers, curators, critics, professional photographers, editorial photographers, picture editors. Here are what some of our graduates are doing now:
Idris Kahn OBE, leading UK artist
Jenny Anderson, Director, Argentea Gallery
Nicola Shipley, director GRAIN Photography Hub
Michael Sargeant, On-line Education Manager, MAGNUM Photos
John McLean, leading photographic artist and architectural photographer
Steve Edwards, leading editorial photographer for UK and US publications
Bethany Kane, Programming Officer FORMAT Photography Festival
In addition, there is the option to take your skills to the next level on our
MA Arts
course.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
This is a new course so the data displayed via Discover Uni is for students studying in another subject area.
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Photography BA (Hons)
Film and High-end Television Production BA (Hons)
Media and Marketing BA (Hons)
Media Content Creation