Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/sport-exercise-science-courses/physical-education-physical-activity-and-sport-ba-hons/

Physical Education, Physical Activity and Sport BA (Hons)  - Sport and Exercise Science - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Sport and Exercise Science
Physical Education, Physical Activity and Sport BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Physical Education, Physical Activity and Sport
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years,  Part-time: Up to 6 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
C608
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
Do you have a passion for Physical Education, Sport and Physical Activity and are interested in educating others? Bring an exciting new dimension to your interest through our BA (Hons) course.
Start your journey towards a career in teaching by studying a course designed to deliver engaging theoretical and industry-relevant practical skills in the field of Physical Education, Physical Activity and Sport (PEPAS)
Gain the knowledge and skills associated with designing, delivering and reviewing physical education content across all school levels, in community settings and to special populations
Build practical experience by undertaking school-based work placements and attending field trips to locations across the UK. You can even apply for bursaries to complete international work experience opportunities, including in Fiji
Make the most of the facilities within our exceptional
sports centre
Be inspired by our enthusiastic and expert staff who boast a wealth of professional experience in the sport and educational arenas
100
%
of students agreed staff were good at explaining things
BA (Hons) Sport and Education - National Student Survey 2024
93
%
of students agreed that the course is intellectually stimulating
BA (Hons) Sport and Education - National Student Survey 2024
Sport and Exercise Science - your questions answered
In the below video, Head of School for Sport and Exercise Science, Andy Hooton, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Sport and Exercise Science at the University of Derby.
View Sport and Exercise Science - your questions answered! video transcript
Physical Education, Physical Activity and Sport at Derby
This course is ideal for those wishing to pursue careers in teaching PE and similar topics at both primary and secondary level, or who are interested in sport coaching as a form of education. It also prepares graduates for a range of careers related to the delivery of physical activity and PE in a range of settings with diverse audiences. The programme will also suitably skill those wishing to deliver Physical Education, Physical Activity and Sport (PEPAS) in community-based settings.
You’ll join a course that will not only give you a well-rounded approach to teaching but will develop your knowledge in areas like personal, social and emotional skills, psychological wellbeing, transferable educational-focused abilities and physical development.
The course has been developed with input from industry-based practitioners and organisations, so you can guarantee that you’ll graduate with the relevant skills that employers are looking for. You will be supported in enhancing your ability to not only understand the techniques, content and integration of the delivery of PE within the national curriculum but also a wide range of personal development skills and knowledge, so you will be in a position to “teach the learner, not the subject”.
The course also has a strong focus on the importance of inclusion at both an organisational level and society in general. You will gain an understanding of the additional support needs that you’ll likely encounter in various PEPAS roles. Aligned with this, you’ll also build an understanding in a number of SEND (special educational needs and disabilities) areas, ensuring you graduate with the skills to recognise and make adjustments for a number of neurodiversity characteristics commonly encountered in both mainstream and specialist population PEPAS delivery.
You’ll also explore the importance of the use of the outdoors as an educational tool and get hands-on experience in designing a range of experiences within the natural environment.  This will equip you with a unique skill set that will differentiate your abilities from many other graduates in the marketplace.
Apply theory to practical settings
Throughout the course, you’ll have the opportunity to experience a variety of practical PEPAS delivery settings, giving you the opportunity to apply theoretical knowledge to enhance your development by undertaking internships and work placements. We have strong links with sports clubs, schools, colleges, community organisations and local authorities to help you deepen your understanding of the educational aspects of sport and the variety of career roles you could pursue. You’ll get involved in delivering sports sessions to groups of different ages and abilities.
You’ll also go on field trips to explore concepts and apply what you’ve been taught in the classroom to real-world settings, as well as engage with our extensive professional networks, including opportunities for coaching practice and industry-backed research.
Expert teaching
Many of our staff are actively involved in research, undertaking influential studies that are breaking new ground in their disciplines. You'll benefit from teaching by experts in education and sport and enlightening guest lecturers by professional coaches, elite athletes and many more leaders in the field. Below is a brief introduction to a number of the core teaching staff on the Physical Education, Physical Activity and Sport degree programme.
Dr Stuart Mourton
- Stuart is the Programme Leader for BA (Hons) Physical Education, Physical Activity and Sport. He joined the University of Derby in 2013 and has led a number of the degree programmes at Derby, teaches on modules at both undergraduate and postgraduate level, and is a supervisor on a number of PhD supervisory packages. He specialises in the areas of skill acquisition and the development of motor skills across both typically developing populations and individuals with additional support needs. Outside of work, he volunteers with Special Olympics GB, helping develop skiers at the Special Olympics West Midlands ski group.
Nicola Taylor
- Nicola started her teaching experience delivering o
utdoor vocational qualifications to potential outdoor leaders, working with the local schools and special needs groups. She was also a freelance Mountain Instructor teaching climbing, mountaineering and movement skills. She then moved to the University of Derby and now supports the Physical Education, Physical Activity and Sport course.
Dr Niamh Mourton - Niamh is an Associate Lecturer for Physical Education, Physical Activity and Sport and specialises in inclusion. She is the global lead for the Motor Activities Training Programme (MATP) for Special Olympics International and brings extensive experience in areas including inclusive practice, regional/national/global programme design/monitoring/evaluation and also brings extensive knowledge from roles with Youth Sport Trust, The FA and UNESCO.
Teaching staff from the School of Sport and Exercise will also deliver on modules across the degree programme, and each of these will bring relevant applied and research experience to these modules, ensuring specialist staff deliver passionately and with detailed knowledge in all study areas.
Build your portfolio of skills
Beyond the core content of your degree, we help you develop important transferable skills and intellectual abilities that will take you far.
You could take part in additional training to add further professional qualifications to your CV, including coaching badges and other awards given by the national governing bodies for specific sports.
The
Association for Physical Education
is the recognised subject association for Physical Education in the UK. We have embedded their Level 3 diploma in supporting the delivery of PEPAS into our programme, providing students the chance to gain an industry recognised additional qualification as part of their studies.
If you are also interested in further study to postgraduate level, particularly on a Postgraduate Certificate of Education (PGCE) to enable you to enter the teaching profession with qualified teacher status, we will help you prepare for this. You will gain experience of academic research, conduct an independent investigation into a topic of your choice, and take part in university conferences.
Providing applied experience in numerous formats is a central component to the development of highly skilled practitioners. The images below showcase a fieldtrip to Pembrokeshire that our third year students went on. The trip included a range of exciting activities including surfing, axe throwing, camping, hiking and outdoor survival skills. These experiences mirror those offered on residential trips to secondary schools and are designed to enhance a range of personal skills in the students who attend them. On this trip, students engage in and reflect on the activities they will ask their students to undertake in the future, develop an understanding of the challenges and rewards these trips offer, and link their experience to academic research in the area to critically discuss the trip and it’s benefits to them personally, and those who undertake similar experiences.
Sport science facilities
Our sports centre includes specialist sport science facilities including a main hall, physiology laboratories, multiple sport therapy suites, a performance suite for biomechanics, performance analysis, and strength and conditioning. You can also take full advantage of facilities such as a fitness gym, studios, squash and badminton courts, an internal climbing wall, sprint track, changing rooms, and treatment rooms.
Our Performance Suite
Our Performance Suite allows Sport and Exercise Science students to learn about performance analysis, biomechanics, strength and conditioning, and injury prevention. As well as elite athletes outside of the University, you'll also be working with our Team Derby athletes to help them improve their performance and successfully compete. Take a look at the Performance Suite and Vicon cameras in action:
View Open Day Live - Performance Suite video transcript
This Adaptive Coaching Theory and Practice module is one of my favourites, as it reminded me why I want to pursue a teaching career, and is particularly important and helpful for anyone wanting to go on to apply for a PGCE.
Adam Cook
BA (Hons) Sport and Education
Sports Scholarships
The University of Derby is a sporting hub for talented athletes and coaches. We have a track record of improving the performance of our
University sports clubs
and we have created an infrastructure to provide support for talented athletes. We offer a
Sports Scholarship
programme that aims to help talented student-athletes realise their sporting potential while supporting them through their academic studies. We offer scholarships of up to £6,000 and provide tailored athlete-support packages delivered by an experienced multi-disciplinary Performance Sport team. Two of the Universities most recent successful sports scholars are Charlie Tanfield (World Champion and Commonwealth Cycling gold medallist) and Jack Burnell (European Open Water silver medallist 2016 and Olympian 2016).
Join Team Derby
If you enjoy a challenge and would like to make the most of your own sporting passion and prowess, you could become involved with
Team Derby
which is the focal point for the University’s sporting community. It encompasses all aspects of sport, including courses, numerous sports clubs, the Athletics Union and sport development activities. You can also take part in the national
BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport)
competitions.
We have also recently appointed Double Olympic Medallist, Bryan Steel, as the Head Coach for Team Derby Performance Sport Cycling. Bryan is a celebrated figure in the world of cycling, bringing a wealth of experience to his role. The decorated Olympian, who represented Team GB at four Olympic Games from 1992 to 2004, boasts an impressive medal collection. His crowning achievements include a bronze medal in the team pursuit event at the 2000 Sydney Olympics and a silver medal at the 2004 Athens Games in the same discipline. Brian's journey also includes 14 World Championship appearances, where he secured five medals, along with three medals at the Commonwealth Games. With the arrival of Bryan, Performance Sport at the university will work in partnership with HUUB-BCC Race Team to give track and road riders access to an elite pathway during and post higher education. This collaboration opens doors for Team Derby Performance Cycling's athletes, offering a unique opportunity to bridge their academic pursuits with professional cycling aspirations.
View Sport at Derby video transcript
Managing Excellence
When Mark Faghy first arrived in Derby as a teenage undergraduate, he stated proudly that his goal was to become manager of the England football team. Now he is a respected research academic leading an international collaboration in the fight against Covid. And his students are helping.
Read Mark's story
Read Mark's story
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Modules are designed to allow for innovative approaches to delivery, providing you with a wide variety of learning experiences. You will learn by guided individual and group-based tasks, presentations, debates and group discussion as well as a whole host of practical opportunities to develop key teaching delivery skills.
How you'll be assessed
Within the programme there is a wide range of innovative assessment methods designed to enhance learning, which reflect the roles of a PESPA coach or teacher within industry. These methods have been carefully planned to give students the opportunity to demonstrate they have met the learning outcomes for each module, to achieve the overall aims of the programme and to provide a coherent, individual learning experience.
The assessments will be in the format of practical assessments, multi-media presentations, exams, poster presentations, essays, evaluation of work placement logs and diaries and a dissertation.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Stuart  Mourton
Programme Leader
Dr Stuart  Mourton
Stuart Mourton is a Programme Leader for BA (Hons) Sport and Education and BSc (Hons) Physical Activity, Nutrition and Health and a Senior Lecturer in Skill Acquisition.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Please note that if you join the course with functional skills level 2 English and Maths rather than GCSE’s but after graduation go onto apply for a PGCE you will have to complete an equivalency test.
If you're an international student and want to improve your English language skills before you start your course, the Derby English Language Centre's
pre-sessional English course
can help you.
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
To welcome you to our team, you’ll receive a University of Derby, Sport and Exercise Science t-shirt
If a DBS check is needed for the purposes of a module or programme related work placement, this is included in your fee if done via the University
Field trips at various points on your programme. These typically take place at outdoor centres across the UK, and allow you to experience the delivery of outdoor activities and education to children at various stages of development. Your travel, accommodation and activities will always be covered. For some trips, you may be asked to purchase your own food to cook for certain meals on your visit
For other additional qualifications that you're interested in, we may contribute to or fund these but this is at the Sport department's discretion
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
If not already owned, appropriate clothing for practical sessions  such as tracksuit bottoms and trainers - approximate cost is £50-£100
Travel to placements - cost varies depending on your placement venue of choice
Optional costs not included in your fees
Lots of e-books are available for free through the University Library, however you may wish to purchase a hard copy of these at your own expense
You may wish to undertake additional qualifications as part of your studies (above and beyond those subsidise or paid for by us), costs will vary depending on your choice
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
The course is designed to prepare students to progress either straight into roles associated with community physical activity design and delivery, the support and delivery of PE and school sport within an educational environment, or to continue onto further study. The later route would likely involve progressing onto any of the routes to gaining a Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE)with qualified teacher status (QTS), that would result in students undertaking teaching roles specialising in PE delivery at all education levels; primary, secondary and/or further education. For those leaners interested in pursuing a career in teaching PEPAS in schools and education establishments in general, the programme has been revalidated in collaboration with the College of Education at the University of Derby to ensure there are multiple progression options for you (both locally and across the UK at other institutions).  There are multiple progression routes for trainee teachers at the University of Derby, including our
PGCE Primary
and
PGCE Secondary (School Direct) with Qualified Teacher Status
, both of which are based at the Derby Campus. Entry to these courses is subject to you meeting initial teacher training entry requirements.
Career opportunities also include physical activity co-ordination, sport and health development officers, fitness and recreation management and health promotion. You could also consider roles in broader areas such as physical activity co-ordination, sport and health development, fitness and recreation management, and health promotion – all areas where there is a strong demand for talented and forward-thinking new recruits.
For students who wish to pursue a career in sport coaching this programme acts as a gateway to roles in this industry, whilst there are also opportunities to progress on to the Masters offer within the School of Sport and Exercise or a PhD within a relevant discipline.
If you want to take your academic knowledge of sport to the next level, this degree acts as a gateway to postgraduate education, with opportunities for you to progress to masters level courses such as our
MSc Applied Sport and Exercise Science
and
MSc Clinical Exercise Science
programmes.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Physical Education, Physical Activity and Sport with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Sport Coaching and Coach Development BA (Hons)