Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/police-constable-degree-apprenticeship/

Police Constable Degree Apprenticeship - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Police Constable Degree Apprenticeship
Apply now
Apply now
Apprenticeship Course
Police Constable Degree Apprenticeship
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Duration
Usually three years
Lecture/workshop days - dates/times
80% is on-the-job learning. The remaining 20% is through 'blended learning' - a combination of face-to-face and online teaching. Face-to-face sessions are usually delivered in blocks and we can be flexible, arranging them to fit around the workplace.
Course description
From 2020, the entry requirements to policing will change and all officers will be required to have a degree level qualification. We've been working with Nottinghamshire Police and Derbyshire Constabulary to establish this Police Constable Apprenticeship so that driven and talented individuals can gain a degree whilst working and earning.
You will cover areas that are critical to effective policing in the 21st century, such as:
Evidence-based policing
Supporting vulnerable people
Dealing with cyber crime and crime prevention
To find out more about the knowledge, skills and behaviours you will be working towards, see the
police constable apprenticeship standard
.
New PC's desire to help others takes her from F1 to the frontline
One of Nottinghamshire Police’s newest recruits has explained how a desire to help other people led her to swap the high-octane world of professional motorsport for a life on the beat.
Find out more about Harminder's apprenticeship journey
Find out more about Harminder's apprenticeship journey
Structure, certificates and assessment
This apprenticeship runs over three years. 80% of your time will be spent completing on-the-job learning and uploading evidence of this to an e-portfolio, and the other 20% will be academic study for a Bachelors Degree in Professional Policing Practice.
You will rotate around key departments in your second year and be able to apply for specialisms in your third year.
To find out more about how you will be assessed, take a look at the
police constable assessment plan (PDF)
.
Request more information about our apprenticeship programmes
Want to talk to a member of the team about our apprenticeship programmes? Make an enquiry and a member of our team will get in contact with to provide you with more information about our apprenticeships, and how our programmes can up-skill your workforce.
Request more information about apprenticeships
Request more information about apprenticeships
Entry requirements
Age and employment requirements
You will need to be at least 18 years old and be employed by a police force. You will also need to meet the standard PC eligibility criteria.
The Police are keen to help individuals from under-represented communities apply for this apprenticeship.
Academic requirements
Typically, you will need to have achieved a level 3 qualification (A-level or equivalent). Forces may accept training or work experience, whether undertaken in or outside England and Wales, which is considered to be equivalent to a level 3 qualification.
You need to have Level 2 in English and Mathematics (or equivalents) prior to entry. If you don’t have the Level 2 requirements, we can offer guidance and support to gain these. Please mention this during the application process.
Fees and funding
The cost will be paid for by the employer.
More details for employers
The cost of this apprenticeship will normally be in line with the funding band £24,000 but we will consider individual agreements, depending on student numbers and your involvement. Apprenticeship Levy funding will be used.
How to apply
We're partnering with
Nottinghamshire Police
and
Derbyshire Constabulary
on this programme so you'll need to apply through them.
However, you can find out more from us - please see below for contact information.
Contact us
Apprenticeship Hub
Email:
apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk
Phone:
01332 593092