Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/policing-courses/policing-and-investigations-ba-hons/

Policing and Investigations BA (Hons) - Policing - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Policing
Policing and Investigations BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Policing and Investigations
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
128
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
L440
Start date
September
Location
Britannia Mill, Derby Campus
One Friar Gate Square, Derby Campus
You’ll gain advanced understanding of the investigation process, explore contemporary policing and deepen your understanding of criminology and forensics
You’ll gain unique insights into real-world practices from our experienced teaching team which includes former police detectives and investigators
“Volunteering with Nottinghamshire Police has been invaluable to me. It has allowed me to be involved in the day-to-day activities with a police investigative unit and learn things that will help enormously with my future job applications.” Grace Jolly, BA (Hons) Policing and Investigations graduate
90
%
agreed the course is intellectually stimulating - Policing and Investigations
National Student Survey 2024
90
%
agreed staff are good explaining things - Policing and Investigations
National Student Survey 2024
Policing - your questions answered
In the below video, Policing Lecturer, Katherine Hewitt, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Policing at the University of Derby.
View Policing - your questions answered video transcript
If you’re interested in how policing and investigations work, this distinctive degree delivers advanced skills and knowledge which can take you far.
Throughout, the degree brings together the theory, policy and practice of policing and investigations, criminology, forensics and criminal justice, which means you’ll be able to evaluate critically the contemporary challenges facing police officers, criminal investigators and civilian investigators.
With applied learning at the heart of this course, you’ll gain a solid introduction to criminal investigation and a logical framework for understanding investigative processes. Drawing on fascinating case studies, you’ll also explore historical, empirical and theoretical approaches to key issues in evidence gathering and criminal justice.
Hands-on learning
The skills you gain on the course will add substance to your CV and increase your employability in the competitive graduate job market.
There may also be the chance to broaden your perspectives through fieldtrips: in the past, our students have visited settings such as police custody suites, a prison, victim support facilities, courts and various voluntary organisations working within the criminal justice sphere.
Volunteering with the police
We fully support you to apply and become a Police Support Volunteer alongside your studies. This gives you the chance to develop your professional practice and the experience is invaluable if you would like to pursue a career in policing when you graduate.
Police Support Volunteers perform tasks which complement the duties of police officers and police staff investigators. Volunteer roles range from front counter services and administration to following up crime reports with members of the public.
There are rigorous application procedures, including vetting, for Police Support Volunteer roles and we will assist you through the process. We also support students who want to join the Special Constabulary, a force of trained volunteers who go out on patrol and form a vital link between the regular full-time police and the local community.
Expert teaching
You’ll be inspired by a teaching team with a wealth of professional experience in policing and investigation. This ensures your learning is enriched by the latest thinking and ideas.
We pride ourselves on a superb network of contacts – from chief constables and crime commissioners to leading figures in organisations such as the Society of Evidence-based Policing and the British Society of Criminology. Thanks to such strong links, we can offer you an outstanding visiting speaker programme where influential professionals from all fields of policing and investigation share their experiences with you.
Equipment and resources
As a BA (Hons) Policing and Investigations student, you’ll be based on the Derby Campus at
One Friar Gate Square
and
Britannia Mill
.
Your learning space offers the perfect environment for innovative and engaging teaching; it includes a replica crown court and interview rooms alongside well-resourced lecture theatres, seminar rooms and social learning spaces. Students have also been able to make use of other specialist facilities at the University such as our forensic crime scene house.
Because you’ll be working alongside students taking courses in subjects such as law, criminology and sociology, there are many opportunities to share knowledge, expertise and experience.
The Gateway to Your Legal Career
Our modern, iconic building offers state-of-the-art facilities like a replica Crown Court and Custody Suite. Just a short walk from the city centre, One Friar Gate Square is designed to elevate your academic journey.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
How you are assessed
Assessment is via a range of methods including:
essays
decision logs
investigative strategies
applied interviewing and evaluations
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Katherine Hewitt
Programme Leader
Katherine Hewitt
Katherine is a lecturer in Policing and currently the Programme Leader for the BA(Hons) Policing and Investigations. She was previously a Detective Constable for Derbyshire Constabulary for over eleven years.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
128
A Level
ABB
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DDM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
Alternative entry qualifications
The University of Derby in collaboration with Nottinghamshire Police and Derbyshire Constabulary run the police cadet scheme resulting in the Foundation in Policing qualification. On successful completion of the Foundation in Policing, applicants applying for this course will qualify for entry.
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Local trips and visits to criminal justice organisations (PSU training, CBR Critical Incident training, prisons, police HQ, custody suites, courts)
Access to online learning materials
A study trip will be offered if applicable and appropriate
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
We equip you with highly transferable skills in loss prevention, investigatory practice and investigative interviewing which will give you a broad career scope. Because the degree is designed in close partnership with constabularies, it is an excellent stepping stone if you want to pursue a career in the policing family once you have graduated. You could, however, consider other roles in the broader criminal justice system, civilian investigation, retail investigation, business crime investigation, crime reduction partnerships, security and loss prevention.
Our Careers and Employment Service will provide you with support from day one of your course to ensure you leave Derby as a ‘work-ready’ graduate – industry aware, motivated and enterprising. Throughout your studies, you’ll also benefit from our Personal Development Planning (PDP) scheme which enables you to reflect on your learning and develop your career ambitions.
The support continues once you’ve completed your course too: you are entitled to further help and guidance from the Careers and Employment Service for up to three years after leaving the University.
Further study
You can go on to postgraduate study at Derby, with MSc qualifications in subjects such as
Criminal Investigation
,
Criminal Justice and Criminology
, and
Police Leadership, Strategy and Organisation
. These expand your knowledge into specialist areas and accelerate your progression to more senior and leadership roles.
“I was immediately drawn to this particular course as I felt it coincided with both my professional and research interests. As someone who already works in practice, I was impressed to see that the course could be tailored for someone who is employed, allowing me a flexible approach to my studies.” Alan Harrop, MSc Criminal Justice and Criminology.
As a graduate of the University of Derby, you can benefit from a
25% Alumni discount
on your postgraduate course fees. Terms and conditions apply.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Professional Policing BA (Hons)
Police Leadership, Strategy and Organisation MSc
Criminal Investigation MSc