Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/teacher-training-courses/pgce-post-14/

PGCE Post-14 Further Education and Skills  - Teacher Training - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Teacher Training
PGCE Post-14 Further Education and Skills
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Post-14 Further Education and Skills
PGCE
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2 years
UK fee
£9.250 for the full course*
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Buxton & Leek College (Leek Campus)
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Study on a course rated ‘outstanding' by Ofsted for its high standard of training and assessment
Improve your career and promotion prospects: we have an excellent track record for helping students progress to employment, more senior roles or masters level study
Develop your skills through an exciting combination of practical teaching experiences, theoretical learning and discussions
As well as the core programme, we offer specialist pathways where you can focus on a key subject area: choose from English, Maths, Science, Engineering, Sport or SEND
Choose a flexible PGCE route to suit you: study on a full-time basis at the University or on a part-time basis at one of our partner colleges in the wider community
Learn from a dynamic teaching team with an excellent reputation for the quality of their training and the impact of their research
Ofsted
rating of 'Outstanding' for Primary, Secondary and Post-14 Further Education and Skills
Ofsted 2023/24
100
%
overall satisfaction
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
This course equips you for the practical demands of teaching in the Further Education and Skills sector, building your skills and confidence to work with post-14 learners in a vast range of educational settings.
A stepping stone to professional status
The PGCE Post-14 Further Education and Skills gives you a real head start in your teaching career. On completion of the course, you will be eligible to apply for Qualified Teacher Learning and Skills (QTLS) status via the Society for Education and Training. Valued by employers, QTLS status demonstrates your commitment, skills and knowledge, adding real substance to your CV.
Our PGCE also puts you on the fast track to achieving a masters degree, providing you with 60 credits at masters level.
An ‘outstanding’ learning experience
Ofsted has awarded its highest accolade – an ‘outstanding’ rating – to our Further Education and Skills provision. In a 2015 report, inspectors praised our “excellent” work with teachers and trainers across the sector and said our “lively and thought-provoking” teaching challenged students to rise to high expectations.
Extensive practical experience
This is a highly practical hands-on course which gives you the chance to explore the full range of roles undertaken by qualified teaching staff in the Further Education and Skills sector.
Teaching experience will be the cornerstone of your studies. Full-time students will study at our main campus, Kedleston Road, and spend two days a week on teaching placement, as well as undertaking a eight-week block placement. We also provide extensive support throughout: you will be allocated a mentor from the University’s teaching team as well as a subject specific mentor to guide you on your placement.
To broaden your outlook, you are also expected to complete an alternative placement in a different educational setting. We will provide full information and advice on this at pre-induction.
A location and pace to suit you
We offer both full-time and part-time routes to the PGCE Post-14 Further Education and Skill course. As a full-time student, you will be based two days a week in our dedicated teacher training facilities at the University. Our impressive Kirtley Building includes specially designed collaborative learning spaces.
You can also choose to take the course on a part-time basis over two years at one of our partner colleges, giving you the added convenience of studying even closer to home.
Inspirational teaching and support
With a rich heritage in teacher training dating back over 170 years, we have a strong reputation for nurturing successful, confident and forward-thinking teachers and trainers.
You will be taught by a highly competent and qualified team of tutors, including published authors and influential researchers whose work is helping to shape the future of the profession. They are an exciting source of ideas for you to take back to the classroom.
What you will study
If you study the core programme you will study the following modules:
Exploring the FE Teaching Role
Professional Practice 1
Learning Theories Applied
Professional Practice 2
The Curriculum Examined
Core Pathway: Examining Subject Pedagogy.
If you study a specialist pathway you will study the following modules:
Exploring the FE Teaching Role
Professional Practice 1
Learning Theories Applied
Professional Practice 2
The Curriculum Examined
Specialist Pathway: Enhanced Subject Pedagogy (English, Maths, Science, Engineering, Sport or SEND).
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
For the full time route you will be based at the University for two days each week, where you’ll be taught in our specialist teacher training facilities. For two days a week you will be on teaching placement, and you’ll undergo a eight week block placement in February.
A variety of teaching strategies and methods are used to maximise your learning: practical teaching experience, presentations, workshops, one-to-one, whole group teaching, small group teaching, blended learning and independent learning.
As a graduate, you’ll be expected to demonstrate sound intellectual and academic skills at levels 6 and 7 through a range of written and practical module assignments.
For part-time study at Leek, you will study in College one day a week for four hours and you must have a relevant work placement, which will be discussed at your interview.
How you are assessed
The main assessment methods you will encounter on the course are observation of professional practice, group and individual presentations as well as formal academic writing.
Study options
You will study this course for one academic year at our Kedleston Road site.
You can also study on a part-time basis at Boston College or Derby College, which takes two years.
Who will teach you
Dan Williams
Programme Leader
Dan Williams
Dan Williams is a lecturer in Initial Teacher Education: Post 14 and a member of the Society for Education and Training.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You will need a honours degree at a minimum of 2:2 in the subject area that is applicable to the Further Education and Skills sector, such as psychology, law, media, sports and music technology. Candidates with pending GCSEs will be considered and equivalency tests will be accepted in English and Mathematics. English and Mathematics Level 2 equivalency qualifications will be accepted if recognised by the Society for Education and Training's QTLS eligibility.
Learn more about the the eligibility for QTLS
An
Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service certificate
(DBS) is required at the point of accepting a place at the University.
If you have lived outside of the UK in the past five years (excluding holidays), you will need to provide a current satisfactory Certificate of Good Conduct from the country you were resident in. You will need to submit this at your course induction. Further information can be found on the
gov.uk website
.
Two references are required and these must be either an academic or employer and must come from a professional email address
All qualifications will need to be certified from the awarding boards. Copies can be accepted but all relevant qualifications will need to be verified in person either at interview or at enrolment or a set date that will be confirmed once enrolment has been completed
Photographic ID is also required and must be verified in person either at interview or enrolment. We can accept Passports/Driving License/Provisional Driving License
A personal statement is mandatory for these courses and must indicate why you wish to study the course in detail and must be specific to education
An
Occupational Health Assessment
and Clearance by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this when required
A
Prohibition List Check
will automatically be carried out after Firm acceptance of an offer has been received
Interview information
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9.250 for the full course*
N/A
International
N/A
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 for the full course*
N/A
International
N/A
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Employability week including interview preparation and supporting job applications
Equality week including guest speakers on a range of inclusion and equality topics
Professionalism input - Society for Education and Training
Access to Derby Library Services
Initial DBS check
A placement in an appropriate post 14 education and training setting for the academic year
Enhanced Placement Opportunity
Range of in-class visiting/expert speakers to enhance module content e.g., Behaviour Management, Honour Based Violence, English and Maths
Trained mentor on placements
University personal and observation tutor
Admission to the annual University of Derby Post 14 Education and Training Showcase event
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
You may choose to buy textbooks, journals, stationery, text books
Replacement DBS check if lost, approx. cost £50
Travel costs up to the first £5 per day
Travel to/parking at settings hosting activities if not in receipt of a bursary
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
For full-time study, you must apply for this course through the
Department for Education
.
For part-time study at any of the following colleges, please contact them directly: Derby College and Boston College.
Careers
This course is the ideal preparation if you want to teach in the Further Education and Skills sector. You can advance your career in teaching post-14 learners in settings such as FE colleges, sixth form colleges and academies. The PGCE is also invaluable for anyone working with training providers, in offender learning/prison education, or in the voluntary sector.
Once you have successfully completed the course, you will be eligible to apply for Qualified Teacher Learning and Skills (QTLS) status via the Society for Education and Training. If you would like to take your qualifications and professional development to the next level, we offer an acclaimed MA Education. By completing the PGCE, you will already have 60 credits at masters level to fast track your progress.
As a newly qualified teacher or trainer, you can also benefit from the University’s continuing support as you take your career forward. We offer a range of resources, subject updates, events, conferences and development opportunities to ease your transition into professional practice.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Learn more about
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion at the University of Derby