Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/practice-certificate-in-non-medical-prescribing-for-nurses/

Practice Certificate in Non-Medical Prescribing for Nurses and Midwives (V300) - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Practice Certificate in Non-Medical Prescribing for Nurses and Midwives (V300)
Apply now
Apply now
Professional Course
Practice Certificate in Non-Medical Prescribing for Nurses and Midwives (V300)
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Module details
Module code
6NU571 (Level 6), 7NU612 (Level 7)
Module level
Level 6 and 7
Module credits
40 credits
Next course date
September and January
Duration
6 months
Location
St Helena, Chesterfield
Module description
About this module
This module enables nurses to develop the necessary skills and knowledge to practice as independent prescribers, and to meet the standards set by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
This course is for practitioners who are registered as a Nurse or Midwife and in good standing with the Nursing and Midwifery Council. Applicants must have been registered for at least 1 year, with appropriate post-registration patient-orientated experience, in a relevant practice setting and an identified area in which to develop independent prescribing practice.
Prescribing by a range of professionals has developed over a number of years, enabling improvements to the efficiency and effectiveness of health care provision. The practice certificate and post-graduate practice certificates in non-medical prescribing have been developed to meet the growing demand for prescribing courses nationally and locally. The course is one core 40 credit module studied over two semesters that enables practitioners to work autonomously when making clinical decisions for the people in their care, with an awareness of personal limitations within their expanding scope of professional competence. This inter-professional programme enables learners to develop their knowledge and skills to become qualified Non-Medical Prescribers (NMP) (also known as Independent / Supplementary prescribers) as recognised by their respective professional regulatory body.
How you are assessed
Practical
: Requires the completion of an OSCE for prescribing
Exam 1
: requires the successful completion of calculations test (100% pass mark) and an examination in pharmacology and its application to practice (80% pass mark
Course Work
: requires the presentation of an evidence-based poster detailing specific drugs, and the submission of an essay.
Additionally
: practice sign-off (verifying 12 days / 90 hours of clinical practice)
On completion, you will be awarded the:
Practice Certificate in Independent and Supplementary Prescribing for Nurses and midwives (Level 6)
Postgraduate Practice Certificate in Independent and Supplementary Prescribing for Nurses and midwives (Level 7)
Course team
Jill Gould
: Senior Lecturer; Programme Leader, DN and community prescriber
Alan Bloomer:  Pharmacist Lecturer and Independent Prescriber
Margaret Stone:  Pharmacist Lecturer
Rachel Lewis: Pharmacist Lecturer and Independent Prescriber
Jennifer Lee: Pharmacist Lecturer and Independent Prescriber
Dr
Gerri Mortimore
: Lecturer Advanced Practice, Independent Prescriber and Advanced Nurse Practitioner
Donna Brewster: Lecturer Advanced Practice, Independent Prescriber and Advanced Nurse Practitione
Helen Johnson: Lecturer Advanced Practice, Independent Prescriber and Advanced Nurse Practitioner
To speak with a member of the academic team please contact
prescribing@derby.ac.uk
Learning outcomes
Select and evaluate sources of information and apply knowledge of pharmacology to promote informed choice and safe, appropriate, cost-effective prescribing practice.
Apply clinical assessment, consultation, investigation and communication skills to guide the diagnosis, shared decision-making, treatment planning, accurate advice and safety-netting for people in your care.
Evaluate key professional, ethical, legal and governance principles in relation to roles, team working, continuing development, public health and influences on prescribing practice.
Entry requirements
Academic Pre-requisites
To undertake the course at Undergraduate level, Nurses or midwives need to have a professional qualification.
Applicants wishing to undertake the programme at academic level 7 (postgraduate) should normally have a first degree. If applicants do not hold a first degree, they may study at Level 7 on this condition: They have successfully undertaken a minimum of one Level 7 (postgraduate) module within the past 5 years.
Professional (NMC, 2018) Requirements
Approved education institutions, together with practice learning partners must:
Ensure that the applicant is a registered nurse (level 1), a registered midwife or a SCPHN before being considered as eligible to apply for entry onto an NMC approved prescribing programme (Pre-admission Portfolio- PAP)
Ensure that applicants for Nonmedical prescribing (V300) supplementary/independent prescribing programmes have been registered with the NMC for a minimum of one year prior to application for entry onto the programme (PAP)
Confirm that the necessary governance structures are in place (including clinical support, access to protected learning time and employer support where appropriate) to enable students to undertake, and be adequately supported throughout, the programme (PAP/Audit)
Confirm on entry that any applicant selected to undertake a prescribing programme has the competence, experience and academic ability to study at the level required for that programme (University application, PAP)
Identify a suitably qualified Practice Assessor and Practice Supervisor(s) (PAP and DPP/PA/PS portfolio)
Practice learning partners must:
confirm that the applicant is capable of safe and effective practice at a level of proficiency appropriate to the programme to be undertaken and their intended area of prescribing practice in the following areas:
Clinical/health assessment
Diagnostics/care management
Planning and evaluation of care (PAP)
The applicant will need written confirmation from practice learning partners of their support for the nurse to undertake the programme
Practice learning partners must confirm they have the necessary clinical governance infrastructure in place (including a Disclosure and Barring Service check) to enable the registrant to prescribe once they are qualified to do so
Employers should not put registrants forward if they have not demonstrated the ability to diagnose in their area of speciality. It should be possible to identify whether a registrant has these skills through continuing professional development (CPD) reviews within the workplace setting. Alternatively, or to help guide this, a “pre-admission portfolio” is available for applicants who require evidence of suitability
The University offers modules in clinical decision-making which enable students to clearly demonstrate they meet the clinical skills-related entry criteria. If they have not undertaken a clinical assessment module, it is the responsibility of the applicant and employer to assure they have the required expertise in clinical. The applicant and/or employer is responsible for confirming that;
The applicant has been assessed as competent to take a clinical history, undertake a clinical assessment, and diagnose in the area of practice in which they intend to prescribe
The applicant has sufficient knowledge to apply prescribing principles taught on the programme to their own area and field of practice
To help with the above, and for nurses who are self-employed, the “Pre-admission portfolio” is available and numeracy skills are tested by the university pre-admission using an online calculations test.
Fees and funding
(August  - July 20undefined)
If you are funding your own study, the full cost of this module is £2,000.
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
How to apply
Level 6
As a professional course, you need to apply directly to the University as well as provide evidence of meeting the specific professional requirements. The entry requirements are assessed through an additional professional form and your University application cannot be considered until we receive and review this form. Find out more about
how to meet the professional requirements
.
Before you begin your application make sure you have:
Your qualification details including grades and dates taken. You will have the opportunity to upload scanned copies of your qualification certificates/transcripts in the application. If you have no formal qualifications, you can also state this in your application.
A scanned copy of your passport or other official photographic ID e.g. photo driving licence. This will help us verify your application to study with us. If you do not have any photo ID, we will accept a scanned copy of your birth certificate. International applicants can only provide a copy of their passport for visa assessment purposes.
Your work experience (optional). You can upload a CV into your application or provide the company names and addresses of up to three of your employers.
A personal statement showing your interest for the course/subject. This is a mandatory requirement and you will be able to upload it into your application. You may want to include your reasons for applying for the course, your experience in the field, how you feel you would benefit from studying and relevant information about your previous studies. You could also tell us about your non-academic experiences such as hobbies, interests, participation in any clubs, societies or voluntary work.
A relevant reference for the course you have applied for. The reference should be in written format and supplied on company-headed paper, signed and dated from either a manager, supervisor, tutor or teacher.
If you need to supply two references, this usually means you need to provide one academic reference from any recent study and one employer reference.
LBR applications
If you are applying for an LBR funded place, please apply directly to the University
Find out more about LBR and whether you are eligible for an LBR course
Self-funded applications
If you are financing your study yourself, please Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Level 7
As a professional course, you need to apply directly to the University as well as provide evidence of meeting the specific professional requirements. The entry requirements are assessed through an additional professional form and your University application cannot be considered until we receive and review this form. Find out more about
how to meet the professional requirements
.
Before you begin your application to the university make sure you have:
Your qualification details including grades and dates taken. You will have the opportunity to upload scanned copies of your qualification certificates/transcripts in the application. If you have no formal qualifications, you can also state this in your application.
A scanned copy of your passport or other official photographic ID e.g. photo driving licence. This will help us verify your application to study with us. If you do not have any photo ID, we will accept a scanned copy of your birth certificate. International applicants can only provide a copy of their passport for visa assessment purposes.
Your work experience (optional). You can upload a CV into your application or provide the company names and addresses of up to three of your employers.
A personal statement showing your interest for the course/subject. This is a mandatory requirement and you will be able to upload it into your application. You may want to include your reasons for applying for the course, your experience in the field, how you feel you would benefit from studying and relevant information about your previous studies. You could also tell us about your non-academic experiences such as hobbies, interests, participation in any clubs, societies or voluntary work.
A relevant reference for the course you have applied for. The reference should be in written format and supplied on company-headed paper, signed and dated from either a manager, supervisor, tutor or teacher.
If you need to supply two references, this usually means you need to provide one academic reference from any recent study and one employer reference.
LBR applications
If you are applying for an LBR funded place, please apply directly to the University
Find out more about LBR and whether you are eligible for an LBR course
Self-funded applications
If you are financing your study yourself, please Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.