Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/practice-certificate-in-non-medical-prescribing-for-pharmacists/

Practice Certificate in Non-Medical Prescribing for Pharmacists - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Practice Certificate in Non-Medical Prescribing for Pharmacists
Apply now
Apply now
Professional Course
Practice Certificate in Non-Medical Prescribing for Pharmacists
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
How to apply
Module details
Module code
7NU527
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
40 credits
Next course date
September and January
Duration
6 months
Location
St Helena, Chesterfield
Module description
About this module
This module enables Pharmacists to develop the necessary skills and knowledge to practice as independent prescribers, and to meet the standards set by the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC).
This course is for practitioners who are registered as a pharmacist and in good standing with the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) or, in Northern Ireland, with the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland (PSNI). Applicants must have at least two years’ appropriate patient-orientated experience post-registration, in a relevant UK practice setting and an identified area of clinical or therapeutic practice in which to develop independent prescribing practice. They must also have relevant clinical or therapeutic experience in that area, which is suitable to act as the foundation of their prescribing practice while training.
Prescribing by a range of professionals has developed over a number of years, enabling improvements to the efficiency and effectiveness of health care provision. The post-graduate practice certificates in non-medical prescribing have been developed to meet the growing demand for prescribing courses nationally and locally. The course is one core 40 credit module studied over two semesters that enables practitioners to work autonomously when making clinical decisions for the people in their care, with an awareness of personal limitations within their expanding scope of professional competence. This inter-professional programme enables learners to develop their knowledge and skills to become qualified Non-Medical Prescribers (NMP) (also known as Independent prescribers) as recognised by their professional regulatory body.
Pharmacists can also undertake the “Diagnostic Reasoning in Clinical Practice” module to contribute to clinically enhanced Independent Prescribing practice.
How you are assessed
Practical 1:
requires the completion of a clinical skills assessment of several parts (clinical skills exam, a clinical decision making OSCE and a viva of a case-based discussion)
Course Work 1:
requires the presentation of an evidence-based poster detailing specific drugs
Practical 2:
requires practice assessment including critical reflection to address competencies and the professional, legal and ethical aspects of prescribing. Practice sign-off (verifying 12 days/90 hours of clinical practice, and providing evidence of the achievement of practice competencies) is required
On completion, you will be awarded the:
Postgraduate Practice Certificate in Independent Prescribing for Pharmacists.
Course team
Jill Gould
: Senior Lecturer; Programme Leader, DN and community prescriber
Tony Daly
: Senior Lecturer and Independent Prescriber
Rachel Lewis: Pharmacist Lecturer and Independent Prescriber
Jennifer Lee: Pharmacist Lecturer and Independent Prescriber
Dr
Gerri Mortimore
: Lecturer Advanced Practice, Independent Prescriber and Advanced Nurse Practitioner
Donna Brewster: Lecturer Advanced Practice, Independent Prescriber and Advanced Nurse Practitioner
Helen Johnson: Lecturer Advanced Practice, Independent Prescriber and Advanced Nurse Practitioner
Alan Bloomer: Senior Lecturer in Post Registration - Pharmacist
To speak with a member of the academic team please contact
prescribing@derby.ac.uk
.
Learning outcomes
Select and evaluate sources of information and apply masterful knowledge of pharmacology to promote informed choice and safe, appropriate, cost-effective prescribing practice.
Judiciously apply clinical assessment, consultation, investigation and communication skills to guide the diagnosis, shared decision-making, treatment planning, accurate advice and safety-netting for people in your care.
Evaluate key professional, ethical, legal and governance principles in relation to roles, team working, continuing development, public health and influences on prescribing practice
Entry requirements
In order to gain entry onto the Education Programme, applicants must meet each of the criteria listed:
Applicants are registered as a pharmacist with the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) or, in Northern Ireland, with the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland (PSNI)
Applicants are in good standing with the GPhC and/or PSNI and any other healthcare regulator with which they are registered
Applicants must have at least two years' appropriate patient-orientated experience post-registration, in a relevant UK practice setting
Applicants have an identified area of clinical or therapeutic practice in which to develop independent prescribing practice. They must also have relevant clinical or therapeutic experience in that area, which is suitable to act as the foundation of their prescribing practice while training
Applicants must have a designated prescribing practitioner (DPP) who has agreed to supervise their practice for the duration of the course. The DPP can be either a clinically active Medical Practitioner or non-medical prescriber with legal independent prescribing rights. Non-medical prescriber DPPs need to be able to demonstrate competence against the DPP Competency Framework (RPS, 2019). All Designated Prescribing Practitioners need to be suitably experienced and qualified to carry out this supervisory role, and able to demonstrate relevant CPD or revalidation.
Although an applicant may be supervised by more than one person, only one prescriber can be the designated prescribing practitioner. When this is a non-medical prescriber, the applicant must also be assessed in practice by a GMC registered medical practitioner. It is the designated prescribing practitioner who will certify that successful pharmacists are competent to practice as independent prescribers.
How to apply
As a professional course, you need to Apply directly to the University. as well as provide evidence of meeting the specific professional requirements. The entry requirements are assessed through an additional form and your University application cannot be considered until we receive and review this professional form. The professional pre-admission form and further information can be found on our
University of Derby Online (UDoL) pre-admission course "Prescribing Preparation
".
Find out more about
how to meet the professional requirements
.
Apply directly to the University
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Postgraduate taught (PGT) Admissions
pgtadmissionsC@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591167
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.