Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/access-courses/pre-access-level-2/

Pre Access Level 2 - Access - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Access
Pre Access Level 2
Register your interest
Register your interest
Access Course
Pre Access Level 2
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Part-time: 32 weeks
Start date
September
Location
Derby Campus
We understand that you may have been out of education for a long time, so we'll ease you in gently and provide you with all the support you need.
This course is for students that want to develop their basic academic skills and wish to progress onto higher education in the future, or further their employment opportunities.
As you study either GCSEs or Functional Skills in English and Maths (depending on your previous qualifications), you'll have the chance to further enhance additional abilities whilst studying Social Sciences (including Psychology-related topics).
The Pre Access Level 2 course will provide an opportunity for developing studying, academic skills and confidence. The course is for adults aged over 19 years of age who are intending to progress on to either our Access to HE Diplomas or Foundation Programmes but who do not currently have the required entry qualification.
What you will study
Pre Access Level 2
English GCSE or Functional Skills Level 2
Maths GCSE or Functional Skills Level 2
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You will learn face-to-face in the classroom with a specialised tutor of Maths and English. You will also be required to complete work in between lessons to consolidate knowledge and application of key topics to exam questions.
Fees and funding
2025/26
There are two types of financial support you may require as a learner on a Pre Access Level 2 course.
Tuition fees
The cost of the course for 2025/26 is to be confirmed.
You will need to be 19 years of age or above on 31 August 2025, whether you will have to pay for the cost of your course or not depends on criteria such as age, eligibility for discounts, and whether you live in the UK, European Union (EU) or overseas.
When you have enrolled, our Fees Team will check if you and your course are eligible for any fee remission or discounts (not to be mistaken with the Further Education Bursary Funds), or whether you will need to personally finance the course.
Further information on tuition fees
Bursary funding
A means tested Bursary may be available to learners on this course to help with Transport costs, Childcare, Equipment, Kit, Uniform, Books, Professional memberships etc.
Further information about bursary funding
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
If you're interested in this course you'll need to attend an
Information Event
.
At the event, you’ll be able to find out everything about the course, find out about fees and finance and get careers advice.
Careers
These qualifications are required for progression within Further Education or onto Higher Education or career change/career progression. Employment opportunities are increased by achieving these qualifications. You could then progress onto a degree or equivalent university-level course.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Course
access@derby.ac.uk
+44(0)1332 591080
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.