Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/online/free-courses/preparing-for-undergraduate-study/

Preparing for Undergraduate Study - Free courses - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Online short courses
Free courses
Preparing for Undergraduate Study
Book now
Book now
Short course
Preparing for Undergraduate Study
Book now
Book now
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Online course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Learning outcomes
Course requirements
Online course details
Price
FREE
Next course date
Open now
Duration
5 Units, 2 hours study per unit
CPD hours
10 CPD hours
Delivery
Self-guided online learning
Location
Online
Online course description
This course has been designed to help you to build your academic skills in preparation for undergraduate study within health or social care. If you are keen to increase your skills and confidence within the academic arena in a fun and informative way, then this course is for you.
The five interactive units that make up this online experience intend to:
help you build the foundations needed to enable you to prepare for the demands of your professional programme
provide you with valuable resources, academic skills and practical applications that can be applied to your chosen health or social care course
facilitate reflective processes that encourage you to become more self-aware and to increase your confidence in your academic ability
give you an insight into how studying at university can help you develop your existing knowledge and provide you with academic and practical experiences to ensure you get the most out of your health or social care course
Who is this course for?
This course would be beneficial to those who are currently undertaking, waiting to commence or considering study on an undergraduate programme within the field of health or social care.
Structure, certificates and assessment
Throughout the learning process you will be awarded a Digital Open Badge for completing each unit. These are internationally recognised by many employers and educational institutions and will allow you to display your study achievements, even if you only wish to complete a specific unit.
Upon finishing the course, you will be issued an E-Certificate featuring all earned badges and stating that you have completed the full course, so that you can add it to your CV or education portfolio.
An accredited provider of the CPD Standards Office
We are proud to be an accredited provider of the
CPD Standards Office
for our online short courses and free courses, demonstrating that they conform to CPD best practice and are appropriate for inclusion in a formal CPD record.
Course units
The course is made up of 5 units, each will require approximately 2 hours of study.
Unit 1 - Working independently and getting organised
The focus of this unit is on preparation for university.
Unit 2 – Locating, using and referencing evidence
This unit will provide you with useful content around the meaning of evidence-based practice. It aims to help you to recognise reliable and useful sources of literature that can support you both with your academic studies and in practice settings and placements.
Unit 3 – Critical thinking and presentation skills
This unit aims to develop critical thinking skills and presentation skills.
Unit 4 - Successful working and practice placements
This unit is focused on the importance of performing well within your workplace and maintaining professional relationships at work and on practice placements.
Unit 5 - Communication, teamwork and planning for your future
This unit is focused on communication skills and your future potential.
Learning outcomes
By completing this course, you'll:
Develop an awareness of how you can succeed at university while studying on a health or social care programme
Feel confident to continue or take the next steps in higher education and a health or social care professional programme
Bridge the gap between prior educational experiences / qualifications and higher education
Course requirements
How to enrol
All of our free courses are delivered through an easy-to-use online learning platform, which you can enrol from directly.
What you will need
The course is free and widely available for anyone to take part in regardless of age, location or education status. You will need to agree to the terms and conditions before you start the course which will be available when you enrol.
However, there are some basic requirements. You will need access to the internet whether it is on your PC, tablet, mobile or other electronic devices, as well as a valid email address to register with our online learning environment in order to take part in the course.
Once registered, please be aware that all study for this course is online and so you will need to be able to engage with this via a personal device, preferably a computer or laptop, for the stated duration of the course.
The learning platform is compatible with screen reader technology to assist those with visual impairments.
Course creator
Melanie Mohidin
Lecturer (Pre-Qualifying Healthcare) Health, Psychology and Social Care
I joined the school of health, psychology and social care in 2019. I started my university career employed as a clinical educator based on the Foundation Degree Nursing Associate Programme. Having also worked within the NHS as a clinical educator I was able to encourage students to make the links between the importance of education and clinical practice using a combination of theoretical teaching and practical skills sessions within the university simulation suites.
I am now a university lecturer teaching, working with and supporting students through their foundation degree within the same programme. I am also involved in supporting Assistant Practitioners studying for their degree within the online platform.
I am a registered adult nurse and my main background is Intensive Care Nursing. I practiced locally for many years and I also spent 8 years within one of the large intensive care units in London.
Contact us
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Course policies
Learner charter
Terms and conditions