Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/teacher-training-courses/pgce-primary-school-based/

Primary (Provider-Led, School-based - with Qualified Teacher Status - Teacher Training - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Teacher Training
Primary (Provider-Led, School-based - with Qualified Teacher Status
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Primary (Provider-Led, School-based) with Qualified Teacher Status
PGCE
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year
UK fee
£9.250 for the full course*
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Follow the School-based
route if you want to spend most of your time learning how to teach in schools
Learn with university led training sessions with dedicated primary specialist tutor
Receive recommendation for the award of Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) on a course ranked as ‘outstanding’ by Ofsted - the highest possible accolade
Join a recently revalidated programme where the content ensures your training is up to date and meets Ofsted standards
Choose a route that matches your career aspirations - choose Early Years (3-7), Primary (5-11).
Benefit from our strong network of provider schools so that you gain varied, challenging and effective practical experience
Be inspired by our team of dedicated, friendly tutors who are renowned internationally for high quality teaching and research
Take your career prospects to the next level: at the end of this course, you will receive 60 credits towards a masters degree.
Ofsted
rating of 'Outstanding' for Primary, Secondary and Post-14 Further Education and Skills
Ofsted 2023/24
Why School-based was the Perfect Mix for Kimberley
Changing career to become a teacher is a big step. Kimberley Tinsley left a 13-year career working as a children’s Speech and Language Therapist in the NHS to join our School-based Primary PGCE.
Read More
Read More
If you’re passionate about embarking on a teaching career, the PGCE Primary (Provider-Led, School-based) enables you to immerse yourself in practical experience from the outset.
Fully prepared for a teaching role
School-based courses have high levels of employment and student satisfaction. You will be recruited as a trainee and based mainly in one of our Delivery Partners, so you will become a valuable part of a school team from the start.
With intensive support in the classroom and the guidance of University experts, you will be fully prepared for the practical demands of primary teaching. This includes teaching the core subjects as well as the wider National Curriculum subjects.
As part of the course, you will undertake three assessed teaching placements to broaden your experience. You will be supported throughout by expert colleagues including our trained school mentors, subject specialists and link tutors.
You will also spend time at the University to develop your understanding of what it takes to become a great teacher.
A first class learning experience
With a rich heritage in teacher training dating back over 150 years, we have a strong reputation for nurturing successful, confident and forward-thinking primary teachers.
In our recent Ofsted inspection (2023/24), we received an 'Outstanding' rating for the quality of our work. Ofsted reported that 'Leaders aspire to ignite inspiration among students' and that leaders do this in abundance.
Our Curriculum for our students was described as one that is 'highly ambitious' and that has been 'skilfully designed to ensure that students develop the necessary knowledge and expertise required to achieve QTS'.
The power of partnerships
As one of the major Initial Teacher Education providers in the East Midlands, we have longstanding partnerships with more than 400 schools across the region and beyond, including rural, multi-cultural and inner city schools.
For the School-based course, we have joined forces with a network of Delivery Partners which work in clusters to support you on placement. Ofsted described our work with our Delivery Partners as 'impressive' and that they 'play a significant role'.
Relevant, up to date and challenging
At a time when rapid policy shifts are transforming the educational landscape, we will help you to meet the challenge of change in the modern classroom. Ours is an intellectually stimulating course which will keep you up to date with all the latest developments, including the Core Content Framework.
You will be taught by a highly competent and qualified team of tutors, including published authors and influential researchers whose work is helping to shape the future of the profession.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You'll study modules such as:
Understanding Behaviour and learning
Curriculum and Pedagogy
Progression and Assessment
Professional Practice
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You will be recruited as a trainee and based mainly in a school, with one of our Delivery Partners. Located across the Midlands, they will work together in clusters to support you on placement. The placements and enhanced school opportunities will provide you with challenging and exciting experiences.
You'll also spend time at the University, working in our excellent facilities with University and school-based expert colleagues, in order to develop your growing understanding of what it takes to become a great teacher.
How you're assessed
All assessments relate to your school placements; you will complete three assessed teaching placements, two in your main school and one in a second school, and additional enhanced school opportunities, which will provide you with the challenging and exciting experience you need. There will be in-depth teacher enquiry on school-based issues.
You'll also have the opportunity to reflect on and discuss your developing subject knowledge of the core and wider curriculum subjects, as well as developing your skills in research-informed practice.
Who will teach you
Jo Baines
Programme Leader
Jo Baines
Jo Baines is the Programme Leader for the Primary Provider Led School-Based  Programme at the University of Derby. Jo is passionate about the teaching of reading and writing.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
For entry on to any Initial Teacher Education (ITE) programme, there is a minimum requirement nationally of a Grade C (Grade 4) or above in English Language, science and mathematics at GCSE).
Applicants must have an Undergraduate Honours degree or equivalent.  The minimum classification is 2:2. A 3rd Class degree may be considered if there were extenuating and exceptional circumstances that may provide a context for the classification; in this instance the candidate will be asked to attend a panel to discuss the outcome. This may include the need for Level 7 support and guidance for masterly reading and writing, as supported by the PAT system.
There are a range of equivalencies and you should check with the admissions team. Please contact
SchoolbasedITTE@derby.ac.uk
if you need clarification.
A
Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS)
check is required at the point of accepting a place at the University. The Disclosure and Barring Service was established when the Criminal Records Bureau (CRB) and Independent Safeguarding Authority (ISA) merged in 2012 and will now provide the criminal records checking service for this course.
Prior to undertaking practice-based learning we will ensure you have completed an immunisation programme.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9.250 for the full course*
N/A
International
N/A
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 for the full course*
N/A
International
N/A
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Interview preparation/supporting job applications inc. local Head Teachers and the unions Professionalism input
University led training sessions
Delivery Partner Hub training sessions
Two main placements in two different schools from your Delivery Partner School
Enhanced Placement Opportunity - 1 week alternative placement covering a range of providers and settings
Trained mentor on placements
Range of in class visiting/expert speakers to enhance module content e.g. Homophobic bullying input, Behaviour Management, Honour Based Violence and PSHE
Primary specialist link tutor
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
You may choose to buy textbook, journals, data sticks and stationery
Replacement DBS if lost, approx. cost £50
Travel to/parking at settings hosting activities
Optional costs not included in your fees
Some trainees may have the opportunity to visit a unique school setting in Holland or other as their enhanced placement opportunity. A contribution or the whole subsided cost might be expected to be paid for travel and accommodation
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
You must apply for this course through the Department for Education. You can apply for 2024/25 entry on the GOV.UK website.
Your application will be processed by the academic partners you've chosen to study at.
For 2024/25 our partners are:
Lead Delivery Partner
University of Greenwich
Delivery Partners
Barts Training and Support Alliance (BTSA)
Communities Academies Trust
Developing Teachers Schools and Academies
Forest Way
Loughborough Learning Alliance
Potentia Teaching School Hub
Rowan Gate Primary School
For admissions enquiries, please contact
SchoolbasedITTE@derby.ac.uk
or telephone
+44 (0)1332 591608
.
Careers
There are few professions as important and satisfying as teaching. Successful completion of this course gives you the ideal springboard into a worthwhile career: a PGCE, Qualified Teacher Status, 60 credits at masters level and substantial practical experience.
The Provider-Led, School-based route is a popular choice for students who would like to secure a role in the network of schools where they train and we pride ourselves on producing highly employable graduates. Ofsted said: “Many trainees gain teaching posts before they finish their training and almost all have obtained a teaching post within a very short time of leaving the University.”
In a profession with lots of opportunities for career progression, we also give you a stepping stone towards a masters degree. With your 60 credits at masters level, you can ‘fast track’ to stage two of a masters degree and accelerate your professional development. Our
MA Education
is an excellent option, especially if you have your sights set on more senior roles such as head teacher or deputy head teacher.
As an early career teacher, you can also benefit from the University’s continuing support as you take your career forward. We offer a range of resources, subject updates, events, conferences and development opportunities to ease your transition into professional practice.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Learn more about
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion at the University of Derby