Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/teacher-training-courses/pgce-primary/

PGCE Primary with Qualified Teacher Status - Teacher Training - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Teacher Training
PGCE Primary with Qualified Teacher Status
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Primary with Qualified Teacher Status
PGCE
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year
UK fee
£9.250 for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start date
September
†
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Study a course ranked as ‘outstanding’ by Ofsted – the highest possible accolade
Gain substantial practical experience on teaching placements in our partnership schools across the region
Be inspired by our team of dedicated, friendly tutors who are renowned internationally for high quality teaching and research
Choose a curriculum enhancement in a range of subjects to advance your skills in a specific area
Take your career prospects to the next level: at the end of this course, you will receive 60 credits towards a masters degree
Ofsted
rating of 'Outstanding' for Primary, Secondary and Post-14 Further Education and Skills
Ofsted 2023/24
Our PGCE Primary leads to the recommendation for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) and prepares you for a fulfilling career where you can make a real difference to children’s lives. You will be fully equipped for the practical demands of the role, including teaching all the National Curriculum subjects.
An outstanding learning experience
With a rich heritage in teacher training dating back over 165 years, we have a strong reputation for nurturing successful, confident and forward-thinking primary teachers. In our 2015 Ofsted inspection, we received an ‘outstanding’ rating for the quality of our work. Our primary leadership team was praised for putting students at the heart of all they do and for ensuring they have excellent career outcomes.
Practical classroom skills
Hands-on teaching experience in schools is a key part of our PGCE Primary. For a total of 24 weeks, you will undertake two main teaching placements – and a number of shorter enhanced placements – in different settings, supported throughout by a range of expert colleagues including our trained school mentors, subject specialists and link tutors.
As one of the major Initial Teacher Education providers in the East Midlands, we have longstanding partnerships with more than 400 schools across the region – a relationship which Ofsted described as ‘excellent’. All placements are organised for you by our Partnership Office.
Choose an age phase
You can tailor your studies to match your own interests and career plans. Depending on your preference and any prior experience, you can choose to specialise in teaching Early Years (3–7 year olds) or (5–11 year olds).
Relevant, up to date and challenging
At a time when rapid policy shifts are transforming the educational landscape, we will help you to meet the challenge of change in the modern classroom. Ours is an intellectually stimulating course which will keep you up to date with all the latest developments, including the Core Content Framework.
You will learn principles and practice associated with the National Curriculum but will also undertake a focused curriculum enhancement module which will be named on your degree certificate.
Our highly competent and qualified team of tutors includes published authors and influential researchers whose work is helping to shape the future of the profession. They are an excellent source of ideas for you to take back to the classroom.
An environment to inspire you
Our impressive Kirtley Building offers specialist facilities to prepare you for the demands of 21st-century teaching and learning.
It includes specially designed collaborative learning spaces to replicate school classrooms and dedicated rooms for primary Science, English and Maths. The extensive Kirtley Hall is used for activities such as PE, dance and music and features a mezzanine level for observing teaching and learning in action.
Outdoor Learning Space
Learn how to apply education in an outdoor setting, using nature to improve the personal, social and technical skills of children.
Explore our Outdoor Learning Space
Explore our Outdoor Learning Space
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
This course is designed to help you become a creative classroom practitioner across all primary curriculum subjects, with the skills and confidence to respond positively to children’s wide-ranging learning needs. At the same time you will gain a deep understanding of child development and theories of learning.
Routes through the PGCE
As part of the course, you can choose to specialise by studying:
PGCE 3-7 (Early Years Foundation Stage and Key Stage 1)
PGCE 5-11 (Key Stages 1 and 2)
Your modules
You will study modules such as:
Understanding behaviour and learning
Curriculum pedagogies
Progression and Assessment
Professional Practice: Fundamentals of Practice
Professional Practice: Aiming for Excellence
Your school placements
With the support of expert mentors, subject specialists and university tutors, you will undertake five school experiences, adding up to 24 weeks in total.
For 'Professional Practice: Fundamentals of Practice’ you will observe experienced practitioners in the classroom, teach alongside your mentor and begin to take responsibility for the class as a whole. You will put into practice the skills of planning, delivery and assessment that you cover in your University-based training. You will also gain the wider professional skills demanded of a teacher such as dealing with parents, contributing to after-school activities and planning school trips. This will take place in two school settings.
For 'Professional Practice: Aiming for Excellence' you will be placed in three different schools or settings, with the opportunity to work with children from other age groups. At first, you will be given time to observe other teachers and get to know your class. You can then expect to progress more quickly to taking fuller responsibility for the class.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You will have lots of opportunities to practise your teaching skills – with the support of fellow trainees and expert colleagues – through presentations and other activities. Sessions at the University are highly interactive, intellectually stimulating and supportive, with regular seminars, tutorials and workshops as well as more traditional lectures. You are expected to prepare thoroughly for all sessions so that you can engage fully and maximise the benefits.
In addition, you will enjoy a range of experiences in a variety of school settings. Your teaching placements will provide you with vital practical experience. Throughout you will be supported by our ‘outstanding’ trained school mentors and university tutors.
How you're assessed
To achieve Qualified Teacher Status, you will need to pass all modules of the PGCE course.
Assessments are spread across the course and focus on practical, professional and academic competences. Your professional progress towards the Teachers’ Standards will be assessed in school by your trained mentors. At the University, your academic work will be assessed using a variety of strategies including essays, subject knowledge audits, presentations and posters.
Who will teach you
Matthew Parry
Programme Leader
Matthew Parry
As a Senior Lecturer in Initial Teacher Education (ITE), Matthew is responsible for overseeing all of the Computing and ICT content across all of the ITE programmes at the University of Derby. He regularly provides continuous professio...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You must have a good UK Honours degree (preferably 2:2) or equivalent, plus grade 4 (C) or above in GCSE Mathematics, English and a Science. Candidates with pending GCSEs will be considered.
Equivalency tests
will be accepted in English, Mathematics and Science.
Demand for places on the course is very high, so you must also:
be able to communicate clearly and in spoken and written English, with a good understanding of correct grammar
meet the Secretary of State's requirements for physical and mental fitness to teach
meet all the Department for Education entry requirements for Initial Teacher Education courses including suitability and fitness to teach checks
achieve clearance from the Disclosure and Barring Service at the start of the course. You must not have previously been excluded from teaching or working with children.
You will specialise in Early Years: age 3-7 (Early Years Foundation Stage and Key Stage 1), Primary: age 5-11 (Key Stage 1 and 2), (Key Stage 2). You must demonstrate engagement with the relevant Key Stages prior to application.
We value applications from students with a range of talents, experiences and backgrounds, but only UK residents are entitled to funding.
If you apply when you are in the final year of your degree, you may not have a degree certificate before you start the course. Statements of Achievement, Diploma Supplements or a letter from the awarding University are acceptable provided it contains full details of the degree that has been awarded and the date of award. Ensure you obtain a copy of the certificate as soon as it is available.
International student applications
are welcomed and applicants must hold the above qualifications or equivalent with an IELTS score of 7.0 or above, with 6.5 in each skills area. However, applicants will also need to demonstrate their ability to communicate clearly and accurately in Standard English. If you are travelling to the UK to take your Skills Tests, please contact us to arrange your interview by emailing
admissionsadvisor1@derby.ac.uk
Additional Information
A
Prohibition List
check will automatically be carried our after we have received a Firm acceptance of an offer
An
Occupational Health Assessment
and Clearance by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this when required
Two references are required and these must be either an academic or employer and must
come from a professional email address
All qualifications will need to be certified from the awarding boards. Copies can be accepted
but all relevant qualifications will need to verified in person either at interview or at enrolment
or a set date that will be confirmed once enrolment has been completed
Photographic ID is also required and must be verified in person either at interview or
enrolment. We can accept Passports/Driving License/Provisional Driving License
A personal statement is mandatory for these courses and must indicate why you wish to
study the course in detail and must be specific to education
An
Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service certificate
cleared by the University is required
for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this once you have
applied
Interview information
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9.250 for the full course*
N/A
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 for the full course*
N/A
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Interview preparation/supporting job applications - Local Headteachers and the Unions
Professionalism input - Unions (free)
Additional input from guest speakers to enhance module content and provide additional information on optional sessions (Voluntary Fridays) e.g homophobic bullying, mental health, Medical Mavericks
Your initial DBS check
A range of placement opportunities with a trained mentor and School Link Tutor. They have a number of placements in different schools with different age groups depending on their age phase specialism: Assessed Placement 1 (8 week placement) £550 paid to the school. Assessed Placement 2 (11 weeks) £550 paid to the school. Non-assessed placements (5 weeks in total across 3 schools) £40/week for each student. There is a reimbursement for travel costs for all placements over the first £5 per day of travel to placement if not in receipt of a bursary.
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
You may choose to buy textbooks, journals, memory sticks, stationery etc.
Replacement DBS if lost approx. cost £50
If you are not in receipt of a bursary you may be asked to pay up to the first £5 of your travel to placements
Travel and parking at settings hosting activities
Optional costs not included in your fees
NQT module forming part of MA. Students receive a 10% discount.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
You must apply for this course through the
Department for Education
.
Careers
There are few professions as important and satisfying as teaching. This course offers the ideal route to Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to embark directly upon your career in a school and to develop your role as a teacher in today's society.
We pride ourselves on producing highly employable graduates. Ofsted said: “Many trainees gain teaching posts before they finish their training and almost all have obtained a teaching post within a very short time of leaving the University.”
In a profession with lots of opportunities for career progression, we also give you a stepping stone towards a masters degree. When you complete this course, you will gain 60 credits at masters level so that you can fast track to stage two of a masters degree and accelerate your professional development. Our
MA Education
is an excellent option, especially if you have your sights set on more senior roles such as head teacher or deputy head teacher.
As a newly qualified teacher, you can also benefit from the University’s continuing support as you take your career forward. We offer a range of resources, subject updates, events, conferences and development opportunities to ease your transition into professional practice.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
† Additional information about your studies
This course will begin on 1 September 2025
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Learn more about
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion at the University of Derby