Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/principles-of-medical-ultrasound/

Principles of Medical Ultrasound - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Principles of Medical Ultrasound
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Principles of Medical Ultrasound
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Module details
Module code
7RD516
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
October
Location
Derby Campus
Module description
About this module
This module is for:
Career sonographers - your primary role will be the provision of a diagnostic ultrasound service. Normally you will be employed in a general imaging department and planning to begin training in a broad range of ultrasound examinations or you may wish to extend your current ultrasound practice.
Specialist ultrasound service providers - you may be a doctor, AHP or health scientist with responsibility for delivery of specialist ultrasound services such as vascular, cardiac, obstetric or gynaecology applications etc.
The key themes explored within the module include the physical principles of ultrasound imaging, equipment design and function, image optimisation, interpretation of ultrasound appearances and ultrasound safety.
The module will be delivered through a blended learning approach that includes directed study and online distance learning materials supported by five themed on-campus study days and work based learning activities. In addition, you will require access to a suitable clinical placement for a recommended minimum of 14 hours (two days) per week supervised scanning practice for the duration of the module.
The module is normally completed alongside one of the clinical ultrasound modules. You must have access to a recommended minimum of two days per week supervised scanning practice with a named ultrasound mentor.
Entry is subject to discussion with module leader and completion of a practice based agreement.
Who is this course for
All Health Professionals
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.