Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/policing-courses/professional-policing-ba-hons/

Professional Policing BA (Hons) - Policing - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Policing
Professional Policing BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Professional Policing
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
120
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
L435
Start date
September
Location
One Friar Gate Square, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
Whilst studying on our BA (Hons) Professional Policing, you will explore a wide range of theoretical and legislative subjects and gain the knowledge you need for a rewarding career in the police service.
The highlights
This degree is designed and delivered in close partnership with local constabularies to give you a head start in your career
We encourage and support you to become a special constable with either Derbyshire Constabulary, Nottinghamshire Police or British Transport Police which enables you to put your studies into practice
We equip you with the practical skills and theoretical knowledge you need to become an effective police officer
Visits to police stations, prisons and victim support centres will give you a close look at how the criminal justice system works
Our academic staff have wide-ranging experience in policing and are pioneering influential research
Learn in specialist facilities such as our custody suite and replica crown court
Please note that completion of this degree does not guarantee employment as a police officer or police staff.
100
%
agreed staff support their learning - Professional Policing
National Student Survey 2024
100
%
agreed the course is well organised - Professional Policing
National Student Survey 2024
Policing - your questions answered
In the below video, Policing Lecturer, Katherine Hewitt, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Policing at the University of Derby.
View Policing - your questions answered video transcript
Both Molly and I chose to study this course because we wanted to be police officers. Derby seemed to be the only course to offer the best route into the career, it seemed serious about policing.
Tom Sharpe and Molly Teasdale
BA (Hons) Professional Policing
Why this course?
Our BA (Hons) Professional Policing provides the ideal preparation for one of the most challenging professions of all. It equips you with an in-depth understanding of the role of a police officer today, including a thorough grasp of criminal justice systems and the powers and laws used by the police throughout England and Wales. You will graduate with a highly regarded and valuable qualification to stand you in good stead for a policing career.
Volunteering
You will be encouraged to seek work-based opportunities through membership in the Special Constabulary, as well as other volunteer opportunities. In the past, some of our students have been commended for their actions in the role of Special Constable by the forces they represent – including one student who helped to save someone's life.
Expert teaching
We have a team of academics with years of policing experience at all levels. You can also draw on our excellent network of contacts ranging from chief constables and crime commissioners to representatives of national and international policing organisations.
Our outstanding visiting speaker and events programme captures topical issues and debates. Recent guests have included policing experts from the USA – a retired police Captain, a retired Chief of Police and a current SWAT commander – who provided a unique insight into their policing models. In addition, the former Chief Constable of Derbyshire shared experiences from his career, the changes which have transformed the profession and the challenges for policing in the 21st Century.
Your studies will be underpinned by our leading-edge research into the explanations and motivations for criminal behaviour and how criminal activity can be detected and prevented. This includes a focus on the notion of policing itself, ethical codes, human rights and police governance.
Specialist facilities
As a BA (Hons) Professional Policing student, you will be based on the Derby Campus at One Friar Gate Square. Offering the perfect environment for innovative and engaging teaching, it includes:
A replica crown court
Custody suite
Interview rooms
Well-resourced lecture theatres
Seminar rooms
Social learning spaces.
Students have also been able to make use of other specialist facilities at the University such as our forensic crime scene house
Because you’ll be working alongside students taking courses in subjects such as law, criminology and sociology, there are many opportunities to share knowledge, expertise and experience.
View University of Derby Custody Suite facility video transcript
The Gateway to Your Legal Career
Our modern, iconic building offers state-of-the-art facilities like a replica Crown Court and Custody Suite. Just a short walk from the city centre, One Friar Gate Square is designed to elevate your academic journey.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You will learn through a stimulating mix of:
lectures and tutorials
seminars and workshops
role play exercises
external visits to settings such as police stations, police custody suits, victim support facilities, courts and various voluntary organisations working within the criminal justice sphere
guest lectures
online support through the University's virtual learning environment
teaching input from policing experts
peer support
guided reading
individual student reflection on learning
How you are assessed
You will be assessed in a range of way including:
role plays and practical scenarios
coursework
exams
presentations
case studies
Who you'll meet
You will be taught by a teaching team with over 250 years of combined experience in the criminal justice sector. They include:
Amy Hale
Katherine Hewitt
Jenny Richards
Dr Phil Jones
Emily Dakin
Tracy Bradford
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Amy Hale
Programme Leader
Amy Hale
Amy has been with the University of Derby since January 2020 as a lecturer on the BA (Hons) Professional Policing degree course. This course is accredited by the College of Policing and is one of the new entry routes into a career in p...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
120
A Level
BBB
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DDM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
Alternative entry qualifications
The University of Derby in collaboration with Nottinghamshire Police and Derbyshire Constabulary run the police cadet scheme resulting in the Foundation in Policing qualification. On successful completion of the Foundation in Policing, applicants applying for this course will qualify for entry.
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
A study trip may be offered if applicable and appropriate
Local trips and visits to criminal justice organisations (Police HQ, custody suites)
Access to online learning materials
If you become a Special Constable a uniform is provided by the force
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
If you become a Special Constable: own shoes or boots, these are a personal choice but must meet the required standards. Own transport to and from interviews, assessment centres and testing during induction week (travel expenses can be claimed back once the initial training is completed but not in retrospect).
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Because it is designed in close partnership with constabularies, this course is aimed mainly at ambitious individuals who want to pursue a career in policing. It paves the way for you to join a hugely rewarding profession which brings new challenges every day, demanding high levels of responsibility, dedication and integrity.
Although the BA (Hons) Professional Policing qualification will not guarantee you a position within the police service, it will set you apart as an attractive candidate to secure a role.
The skills you develop on the course could also prove invaluable for a career within the broader criminal justice system. You could, for instance, consider roles in areas such as civilian investigation, crime reduction partnerships, probation, security and loss prevention.
Throughout your studies, you will also benefit from our Personal Development Planning (PDP) scheme which enables you to reflect on your learning and develop your career ambitions. The support continues once you have completed your course too: you are entitled to further help and guidance from the Careers and Employment Service for up to three years after leaving the University.
Further study
You can go on to postgraduate study at Derby, with MSc qualifications in subjects such as
Criminal Investigation
and
Police Leadership, Strategy and Organisation
. These expand your knowledge into specialist areas and accelerate your progression to more senior and leadership roles.
As a graduate of the University of Derby, you may benefit from an
alumni discount
on your postgraduate course fees if you continue to study with us.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Policing and Investigations BA (Hons)
Police Leadership, Strategy and Organisation MSc
Professional Policing (Accelerated) BA (Hons)