Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/project-manager-degree-apprenticeship/

Project Manager Degree Apprenticeship - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Project Manager Degree Apprenticeship
Apply now
Apply now
Apprenticeship Course
Project Manager Degree Apprenticeship
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Benefits
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Course level
Level 6
Next course date
September and January
Duration
Part-time over 4 years
Delivery
Blended learning
Lecture/workshop days - dates/times
Predominantly online learning with 9 days on-site.
Course description
The programme has been designed with and for employers and apprentices within the East Midlands region. Project management is of vital importance to the UK economy with the Government Major Projects Portfolio alone consisting of 235 projects with a total whole-life cost of £678bn (APM, 2023). Nationally, the Association for Project Management’s (APM’s)
Golden Thread
report estimated approximately 2.13 million full-time equivalent workers employed in the UK project management sector, with the profession generating £156.5bn of annual Gross Value Added (GVA) (APM, 2023).
The programme offers an opportunity to delve into a specific project management role by systematically examining the advanced skills and knowledge essential in real-world settings.
The programme is tailored to both professional and organisational needs, as all learning experiences revolve around a designated job role, company, and industry sector.
You will collaborate with like-minded professionals to debate key concepts and tackle real-world problems in Project Management. The programme is designed to give you more confidence in your ability to deal with complex situations, lead a team and communicate effectively via written reports and presentations.
The programme also explores concepts in broader business and digital technology fields and places emphasis on professional ethics, responsibility, leadership, decision-making, and collaborative teamwork. By adopting a transdisciplinary and transformative approach, the programme offers pertinent and individualised learning experiences, progressively nurturing independent learners capable of navigating the evolving structures within communities and organisations.
The development of this apprenticeship programme has been informed by a wide array of employers including sectors such as advanced manufacturing, healthcare, construction and the finance sector.
Structure, certificates and assessment
The programme aims to:
Provide an integrated degree apprenticeship that works collaboratively with employers to delivers the knowledge, skills, and behaviours of Project Management in the workplace and to facilitate apprentices achieving the required competency articulated within the Standard
Support and enable the apprentice to effectively pass the End Point Assessment for the Project Manager Degree Apprenticeship, thereby attaining the capability to achieve professional proficiency and perform competently within a range of settings
Provide a high-quality learning experience that is flexible and responsive in supporting the personal and professional development of apprentices and their organisations
Ensure that the apprentice can successfully complete the requirements for on and off-the-job learning/training, providing the apprentice with a holistic work based learning experience
Provide the apprentice with opportunities for real career development and further academic progression, embedding the concept of continuous professional development within a professional institution
To progressively develop cognitive, intellectual and practical skills within a relevant project management and leadership context
To produce graduates who can be creative, innovative and dynamic in their work and who can communicate their outputs effectively in a variety of forms
To provide learners with long-term perspective about contemporary issues in project management, enabling learners to leave the programme with an excellent portfolio of practical and academic skills
To support the development of highly professional behaviours and competencies that are aligned to organisational and responsible management standards
Produce apprentices who can understand and apply ethical practices and codes of conduct in their professional life. To prepare learners for a career in project management in an evolving business and social environment.
Modules
The degree apprenticeship is a work based learning qualification comprised off-the-job and on-the-job learning. These elements are integrated so that you can relate and apply your learning to practice with the workplace.
After Year 2 Apprentices will undertake the International Project Management Association (IPMA) Level D qualification.
Year 1
Introduction to Project Management - 30 credits
Management in the Business Environment - 30 credits
Applied Analytical Methods and Business Control- 30 credits
Year 2
Procurement and Contract Management - 30 credits
Project Quality and Operations Management - 30 credits
Project Planning, Risk and Value Engineering - 30 credits
Year 3
Corporate Responsibility and Professional Development - 30 credits
Digital Trends and Business Intelligence - 30 credits
Project Strategy and Leadership - 30 credits
Year 4
Programme and Portfolio Management - 30 credits
Professional Review - 20 credits
Work Based Project - 20 credits
Professional Review - 20 credits
Benefits
The apprenticeship is designed to provide apprentices with the practical skills and knowledge to enhance their careers, focused on the knowledge, skills and competencies required within a wide variety of roles within industry.
By the end of the programme, apprentices will be able to analyse, synthesise and evaluate all aspects of project management that are required to gain:
Professional knowledge of project management and the ability to apply for Chartered Project Manager status
Application of appropriate theoretical and practical methods to appropriate applications for project management
Effective interpersonal and communication skills using a variety of media
Guidance on understanding and applying principles involved with Prevent, Safeguarding and British Values in the workplace
Ability to reflect and evaluate learning and technical achievements throughout study to identify proposed professional intent
The potential to progress to a level 7 apprenticeship or study.
Request more information about our apprenticeship programmes
Want to talk to a member of the team about our apprenticeship programmes? Make an enquiry and a member of our team will get in contact with to provide you with more information about our apprenticeships, and how our programmes can up-skill your workforce.
Request more information about apprenticeships
Request more information about apprenticeships
Entry requirements
The following broad criteria will apply for entry to the academic programme are:
You will be employed by a sponsoring organisation
As employees your academic qualifications will have been assessed by your organisation. These would normally include three A-levels (or equivalent) at grade C or above
UCAS points 96
A Level - CCC
BTEC - MMM. BTEC National Diploma/Extended Diploma
GCSE GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE - Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6. Must include passes in compulsory Level 3 subjects
Fees and funding
The cost will be paid for by the employer. The cost of the apprenticeship will normally be in line with the Levy Band of £22,000, but individual agreements will be considered depending on student numbers and the involvement of employers.
How to apply
Apprentices will need to apply through their employer.
Employers can find out more by contacting the Apprenticeships Hub. Please see the contact information below.
Contact us
Apprenticeship Hub
Email:
apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk
Phone:
01332 593092
Other courses you might like
Operations/Departmental Manager Apprenticeship Standard (Level 5)
Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship