Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/joint-honours-courses/psychology-and-early-childhood-studies-ba-hons/

Psychology and Early Childhood Studies BA (Hons) - Joint Honours - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Joint Honours
Psychology and Early Childhood Studies BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Psychology and Early Childhood Studies
BA (Hons)*
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
* This course is
subject to validation
✕
What does ‘subject to validation’ mean?
We are continually looking at enhancing our courses to ensure they are up to date and relevant. This means we may add new courses or update existing courses in our portfolio. As this happens, the courses are advertised as ‘subject to validation’ to make you aware that the course you are looking at may not yet be finalised, or is undergoing changes.
Any course listed as ‘subject to validation’ is in the final stages of approval. Validation is a rigorous process undertaken with academic staff, students, independent subject experts and employers to ensure the course is current, of high quality, and able to prepare students well for their future employment or further study.
Success through validation is not guaranteed, which is why courses are highlighted as ‘subject to validation’. In the event the course is significantly amended, or does not meet the necessary requirements for a successful validation, we will get in touch to support you in finding a suitable alternative, either at the University of Derby or at another provider.
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
120
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
LC58
Start date
September
Become a stand-out graduate by studying a course that brings together the best of Psychology and Early Childhood Studies, enhancing your analytical and people skills for a rewarding and compassionate career. You’ll be encouraged to think creatively, challenge established beliefs and develop your own research interests.
You will cover the fundamental psychological theories to explore human behaviour and development as well as gain a thorough understanding of how children develop, learn and think from a broad range of perspectives. This course offers you the opportunity to learn how to make a genuine and lasting difference to children’s lives and create a foundation for vital roles in health, education, social care, and psychology-based careers. Our focus throughout is on identifying and meeting children’s holistic needs, so you’ll consider all the challenges and opportunities faced by early years professionals working in a variety of children’s services.
Specialist facilities
Our Psychology facilities are used for both teaching and research. They include computing labs with specialist software for designing experiments and research. You'll use a range of psychological recording equipment such as the latest eye-tracker equipment for analysing eye movement and our Babylab for ethical research with babies and young children.
Top
20
for student satisfaction
Psychology subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
Top
25
for Psychology
Guardian University Guide 2024
Top
5
for student satisfaction
Childhood and Youth Studies subject area, Complete University Guide 2025
Top
15
for entry standards
Childhood and Youth Studies subject area, Complete University Guide 2025
Top
20
for graduate prospects
Childhood and Youth Studies subject area, Complete University Guide 2025
Top
20
for Childhood and Youth Studies
Complete University Guide 2025
A vibrant learning experience
We pride ourselves on offering a friendly, welcoming learning environment where you will receive plenty of encouragement and guidance. Our tutors are approachable, dedicated and passionate about their subjects. For Early Childhood Studies modules, you’ll learn in our Kirtley Building which offers first-rate facilities for our Education and Childhood Studies students. It includes specially designed collaborative learning spaces and a large hall for practical activities and observing learning in action. Students will also learn off site which includes opportunities to learn off site e.g. forest school sessions.
Outdoor Learning Space
Learn how to apply education in an outdoor setting, using nature to improve the personal, social and technical skills of children.
Explore our Outdoor Learning Space
Explore our Outdoor Learning Space
Be inspired by our teaching team
Our Psychology and Early Childhood Studies teaching teams are experts in their field and bring a wealth of knowledge and experience to your course. Our Psychology team have a history of research in a variety of fields such as mental health and wellbeing, compassion and mindfulness, autism and maths anxiety. With a team of enthusiastic and experienced lecturers and researchers, your learning will be underpinned by internationally renowned research activities and your modules will feature the latest thinking and contemporary materials.
Accredited course*
British Psychological Society accreditation means we're delivering a high standard of psychology education. It shows we've met BPS standards for course content and design, and student development. It also means you can apply for BPS student membership. This provides:
Access to networking opportunities
The BPS student online community
Discounts on books
Events and e-learning
Academic journals
The chance to transfer to graduate membership free of charge after completing your degree
You will also have the opportunity to progress to accredited postgraduate qualifications and training to gain chartered membership of the BPS.
For students to receive the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC) of the British Psychological Society (BPS), students need to do the following:
Choose a Psychology major pathway with all prescribed modules
Obtain at least a 40% overall for the Independent Study in Psychology
Obtain at least a lower second-class degree
Choose a pathway
Studying a Psychology and Early Childhood Studies Joint Honours degree allows you to choose whether you major in one subject or study them both equally.
You begin this degree by studying both subjects equally in your first year. By the end of your first year, you will then decide whether you would like to major in Psychology or continue to study them both equally.
Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Psychology and Early Childhood Studies
In this pathway, you study Psychology and Early Childhood Studies equally.
Bachelor of Science (Honours) in Psychology with Early Childhood Studies
In this pathway, Psychology is the major subject and includes all prescribed credit bearing modules. Early Childhood Studies
is the minor subject. Students receive BPS accreditation with this pathway. If students majoring in Psychology do not pass all prescribed credit bearing Psychology modules, the title of the degree will alter to say Psychological Studies.
Student stories
How Elodie became a whole new version of herself
Elodie Lee didn’t think she was going to make it to university - and now she’s loving her BSc (Hons) Psychology at Derby.
How mature student Chloe took control of her life
The idea of going to university at the age of 25 seemed daunting for Chloe. But she wanted to take control of her life. Now she’s in love with academia.
Romaana's passion leads to rare research feat
Our undergraduate Psychology student Romaana Kapadi used the skills she gained on our Undergraduate Research Scholarship Scheme to win a valuable internship.
What is a Joint Honours degree?
A Joint Honours degree offers students the opportunity to study two subjects.
A Joint Honours degree is a great option if:
You want to study two subjects you’re passionate about
You’ve got a specific career in mind and want to create a tailored degree to prepare you for the future
You want to study a new subject alongside one you’re already familiar with
What you will study
The modules below indicate the range of modules you may study as part of this combination, however prescribed and optional modules will vary depending on whether you choose to study both subjects equally, or choose to major or minor in a subject. To find out exactly which modules you would study as part of your chosen combination please contact
jhs@derby.ac.uk
.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
For Psychology modules, you will learn from lecturers and tutors who are carrying out research designed to offer fresh perspectives on issues that are significant at every stage of life. Your lecturers bring their latest thinking to your studies. And, in some cases, you’ll have opportunities to get involved in research projects yourself. Quality inspectors have commended us for being “at the forefront of technology-enhanced learning” in Psychology. For both Psychology and Early Childhood Studies, you will be taught through lectures, seminar activities and tutorials to support you through your assessments and group work.
How you are assessed
For Psychology modules, you’ll be assessed mainly through assignments, via essays, posters, presentations, and reports. You may also have to take some exams. These can include essay questions, multiple choice and short answer questions. For Early Childhood Studies modules, you’ll be assessed using case studies, essays, independent research, online tests, posters, presentations and reports. There are no exams.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Kay Owen
Programme Leader
Dr Kay Owen
Kay previously worked as an Associate Lecturer in the Psychology Department at the University of Derby before moving across to the College of Education where she now teaches full-time on the Early Childhood programme.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
120
A Level
BBB
BTEC
DDM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Distinction: 15 credits, Merit: 24 credits, Pass: 6 credits
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
The initial DBS check
Access to essential software (SPSS and NVivo)
Access to any materials included in taught areas such as biopsychology, research methods and related optional modules
Visit to the British Psychological Society's Psychology4Graduates national event
Accredited Paediatric First Aid training
Resources used during creative workshop sessions
Induction activities and visits
Any in-class visits (Guest workshops)
All visiting speakers to enhance module content e.g. Social Worker, Health Visitor, Early Childhood Academic
Discipline Area Conferences such as Early Childhood Studies Conference, Contesting Childhood Conferences, Education & SEND Conferences and Symposium, Careers Conferences
Placement travel costs that exceed stated amount per day (2020-21 stated amount currently £5 per day) for the mandatory days/hours required for the placement module (Level 5) and practitioner status requirements (Level 4-6) (policy guidance must be followed)
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Replacement DBS check if lost approx. cost £50
Placement travel costs that exceed £5 per day
Optional costs not included in your fees
You may wish to purchase optional textbooks or e-books to support your studies - costs for these are dependent on your choice
Printing costs of course materials if hard copy desired
Student membership of the British Psychological Society - approximate cost is £30
Certificated Makaton training, British Sign Language approx. cost £295 which includes registration and exam fees. Students can pay by instalments.
Field trips abroad that offer enrichment opportunities – these are optional, approx. cost £430-£1000
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Please note direct applications for this course are not currently available. Please check back for further updates.
Careers
This degree is your chance to shape and influence many young lives. Studying Psychology opens doors to many different sectors and professions – anywhere an understanding of people is valued. Early Childhood roles is a rapidly growing area of employment with opportunities to careers in the independent, private, public or voluntary sectors.
Our graduates have gone on to successful roles in sectors such as:
Psychological research
Scientific or clinical research
Charity leadership
Mental health support and management
Health services and therapeutic care
Probation service and police
Human resources
Health psychology
Educational psychology
Occupational psychology
Forensic psychology
Clinical psychology
Teaching
Through our Professional Development Package, you'll gain valuable transferable skills, including:
Written and verbal communication
Research and analytical
Personal motivation, organisation and self-reflection
Numeracy
IT literacy
Critical awareness
If you want to become a Psychologist or progress to Postgraduate study in Psychology, we advise that you major in Psychology including all prescribed credit bearing modules. This means you will receive accreditation from the British Psychological Society.
Well qualified and dedicated early childhood professionals are in demand across health, education and social care settings. Our Early Childhood Studies graduates are now enjoying successful careers as early years practitioners and managers. You’ll also find there are ample opportunities for promotion and progression to leadership positions in children’s services. Some of our graduates have, for instance, gone on to train as children’s nurses by undertaking a shortened two-year Paediatric Nursing qualification. You can also consider our exciting range of postgraduate courses, including the
MA Education
or
MA Social Work
.
Please note that this course does not lead to Qualified Teacher Status. However, if you’d like to train to be a teacher, you will be guaranteed an interview for our
PGCE Primary
if you meet the entry requirements.  You could also apply to study our
PGCE Post-14 (Education and Training)
.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
You will typically study your two subjects equally at stage one, before choosing whether you want to major in one subject at stages two and three.
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Discover Uni
This is a new course so the data displayed via Discover Uni is for students studying in another subject area.
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Early Childhood Studies BA (Hons)
Psychology and Education Studies BA/BSc (Hons)
Psychology BSc (Hons)
Special Educational Needs and Disability BA (Hons)