Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/psychology-courses/psychology-mres/

Psychology MRes - Psychology - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Psychology
Psychology MRes
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Psychology
MRes
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Our new Master of Research (MRes) programme aims to offer you the finest possible preparation for undertaking original research in psychology.
Build the high-level skills you need to become a professional researcher
Design and deliver a substantial piece of independent psychology research on an original theme of your choosing
Tailor your research project to reflect your professional and personal interests, your current job role or your career aspirations
Develop a confident command of a range of research skills and methods, with a focus on both quantitative and qualitative methods
Work with psychology experts at the cutting edge of their specialist areas
Benefit from personal individual supervision
Balance your studies with your other commitments through our flexible blend of online learning and short study blocks on campus
Harness our sophisticated psychology research facilities, including a video observation suite and the latest eye tracking equipment
Open the doors to new career opportunities as a researcher in academic, commercial or public sector settings
Gain the ideal platform for progression to a PhD
Join the programme with a 2:1 in your undergraduate degree (other
entry requirement
s apply)
If you want to become a researcher in psychology, skilled in delivering evidence-based research, this course is for you.
A distinctive and challenging masters degree
The MRes is designed for intellectual graduates with strong honours degrees and behavioural science professionals who are keen to enhance their career prospects by taking their research skills to the next level. It differs from more traditional taught masters programmes – such as an MSc –because of its focus on enhancing research methods and skills. Covering both quantitative and qualitative approaches, you will gain a thorough grounding in the methods and processes which underpin original research in psychology and then conduct your own major independent research project under expert supervision.
The research skills you build culminate in you undertaking a research project supervised by a member of staff, the assessment of which includes a viva voce examination, excellent preparation for a PhD. These are some of the research areas currently supervised within the department, and some studies that you can choose from, alternatively, feel free to discuss your own ideas with us.
Research themes include
Religious Belief/Experience
Paranormal Belief/Experience
Music Psychology
Nature Connectedness
Maths Anxiety
Emotion
Eating Behaviours
Compassion
Rural Living
Dual Process Theories of Thinking
Experiences of Nursing and Carers
Cyberpsychology
Pain
Autism, Asperger’s and ADHD
Belief and Development
Dark Tetrad of Personality
Belief in Conspiracy Theories
Please email Dr Malcolm Schofield at
m.schofield@derby.ac.uk
for further details.
Potential projects available
Assessing the effectiveness of expressive writing on reducing mathematics anxiety and increasing performance
Understanding drug calculation anxiety among non-medical prescribers
Investigating the reasons why students choose, or do not choose, to study psychology at degree level
Reasoning fast and slow: dual process theories of thinking
Female nurses’ constructions of male nurses: a Foucauldian discourse analysis
Male nurses’ experiences of working in a female-dominated environment: an interpretative phenomenological analysis
Public perceptions of male nurses
The psychology of problematic social networking use
Associations between personality and problematic technology use
The dark tetrad of personality and paranormal experience
The dark tetrad of personality, schizotypy and synaesthesia
Avoiding confounds? An exploration of priming when using emotional measures
Visual Imagery – can it bolster performance?
The influence of personality and compassion on emotional functioning in disordered eating
Emotion skills training to prevent the development of eating disorders
Please email Dr Malcolm Schofield at
m.schofield@derby.ac.uk
for further details.
Build a toolkit of research skills
There is a choice of modules in research methods to offer a degree of flexibility in your studies. We do, however, strongly recommend that you take modules in both quantitative and qualitative research: a distinctive feature of this programme. This will help set you apart as a fully trained researcher and will maximise your career opportunities. Research skills options, which are primarily delivered online, cover themes such as managing and funding research, research ethics, information literacy, research leadership, thesis writing and getting your research published or exhibited.
Focus on a theme of your choice
We provide every opportunity for you to tailor your studies to match your current job role, your personal and professional interests, and your career ambitions. For the Negotiated Module in Science, you will complete a written report and make a presentation on a topic agreed with the teaching team. The most substantial part of the programme is taken up with your independent research project. This will span the initial development of a research question, planning the research project, selecting appropriate research methods, sourcing information, analysing the results and communicating your findings. You are free to choose many different approaches, from qualitative studies to experimental research.
You will be allocated a research project supervisor who will oversee your progress and mentor you through your development as an active, engaged researcher. We encourage you to design research projects which relate directly to real-world issues. There may be opportunities to work with some of our partners across the voluntary and charitable sectors to deliver research findings which help them shape their future services.
Learning which fits around you
The structure of the MRes enables you to balance your learning with your work and personal commitments. This includes flexible full-time and part-time routes to the qualification. You will benefit from a blended learning approach which integrates online learning with on-campus study blocks. Your generic research skills modules are all delivered online while other modules include an intensive three-day study block at the University.
In addition, the individual supervision you receive will be arranged in ways that offer maximum flexibility and convenience as you shape and progress your research project.
Become part of a thriving research community
As an MRes Psychology student, you will join a flourishing research community at the University and your own project will contribute to the body of scholarly knowledge we produce. You will be supported and guided by our team of nationally and internationally recognised psychological researchers. They cover a vast range of specialist areas and regularly share their findings in leading journals and at international conferences. Well versed in using research to inform their teaching, they have particular expertise in helping students develop initial ideas into practical research projects.
You can also draw inspiration from the work of our renowned  as well as our strong links with professional bodies such as the British Psychological Society. We arrange regular research seminars featuring influential guest speakers.
State-of-the-art facilities
You will benefit from our
excellent facilities
, which are used for both teaching and research. They include high specification computing labs with specialist software for experiment design and a full range of psychological recording equipment such as EEG and the latest eye tracking equipment for analysing eye movement.
Our video observation suite features rooms equipped with two-way mirrors and DVD recording equipment for interviews and focus groups. We also have research project rooms and a psychology test bank to aid your studies.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You'll study modules such as:
Modules
You'll study modules such as:
Advanced Qualitative Analysis for Psychology (20 credits)
Advanced Quantitative Analysis for Psychology (20 credits)
Philosophy of Science in Psychology (20 credits)
Conducting Psychological Research in the 21st Century (20 credits)
Methodological Strategies for Reviewing Contemporary Research (20 credits)
Independent Research (80 Credits) (MSc) or Research Project Diploma Exit (20 credits) (PG Diploma)
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
The course uses a blended learning approach integrating periods of online learning combined with short campus study blocks and flexible individual supervision.
Assessment
The assessment methods are a range of different forms of coursework.
Teaching Hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will be communicated after enrolment on your course.
Who will teach you
Dr Melanie Haughton
Programme Leader
Dr Melanie Haughton
Lecturer in Psychology, Melanie Haughton, has worked in education since 2000. Melanie has worked as a Higher Education Learning Mentor, she has also worked as a Graduate Teaching Assistant at Lancaster Universi...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
Entry requirements for UK students:
Applicants should normally have or expect to obtain at 2:1 honours degree in psychology or a closely related subject with good coverage of undergraduate research methods.
Entry requirements for EU/international students:
Applicants with overseas qualifications are strongly advised to establish the UK equivalence of their qualifications. Within this requirement, it will be important to ascertain the ability to speak and write using the English language.
If English is not your first language you must have achieved an IELTS score of at least level 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each skill area). Before applying students may seek confirmation of equivalency by contacting the National Academic Recognition Information Centre (NARIC) on 0870 9904088, and writing to Oriel House, Oriel Road, Cheltenham, Glos. GL50 1XP. Evidence of equivalence (written verification) will be required on application for entry on this programme. A fee is payable for the NARIC service.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to essential software (SPSS, NVivo)
Access to any materials necessary for specific areas of research such as questionnaires and psychometric tests
Up to 20 inter-library loans per year
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Transport to any elements of the course, including the study blocks for blended modules
Optional costs not included in your fees
Our Psychology department have a specially designed hooded jumper which is available for staff and students
You may wish to purchase optional textbooks or e-books to support your studies - costs for these are dependent on your choice
Printing costs of course materials if hard copy desired- approximate cost is 5p per sheet
British Psychological Society membership if desired - approximate cost is £25 for a student member and £65 for a graduate member
If needed, an additional 20 inter-library loans per year - approximate cost is £2 each
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
Skills in research, analysis and evaluation are increasingly valued by employers across many different sectors. The thorough understanding of psychological theory, research and methodology you gain from your MRes studies will therefore give you a distinct advantage as you pursue your career.
Your qualification will act as a vital stepping stone, enabling you to apply for:
Employment as a researcher or research assistant on major projects in an academic, commercial or public sector setting
Employment in organisations which support the development of individuals throughout the lifespan
Further professional training and registered routes into professions such as counselling, clinical psychology and educational psychology – for those who have already met Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC) of the British Psychological Society
If you are already working, the MRes can also provide excellent continuing professional development and lifelong learning opportunities, helping you become a more psychologically aware practitioner.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Other courses you might like
Behaviour Change (incorporating PG Dip/PG Cert) MSc
Health Psychology MSc