Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/psychology-courses/psychology-bsc-hons-foundation/

Psychology with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)  - Psychology - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Psychology
Psychology with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Psychology with Foundation Year
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 per year
(2024/25)
UCAS points
80
(September 2024 entry)
UCAS code
C801
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Benefit from high-quality teaching, excellent support and specialist facilities as you explore the fascinating discipline of Psychology.
Take a route which is ideal if you are looking to change career or exploring areas which are new to you: the foundation year gives you a strong platform for success. It is also a great route into the degree if you don't meet the requirements for the 3-year course.
Learn from lecturers at the forefront of psychological research – you’ll have opportunities to contribute to their projects and to conduct your own research
Use specialist facilities, including our psychological observation suite and eye tracker equipment, EEG for recording brain activity, and a Babylab for ethical research with babies and young children
Take the opportunity to go on an optional work placement and add substance to your CV
Psychological studies can help shape healthier societies across the world. Our course content links to global initiatives including the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals where 'Good Health and Wellbeing' is prioritised
Gain the undergraduate qualification you need to enter postgraduate training to become a professional psychologist
Top
20
for student satisfaction
Psychology subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
Top
25
for Psychology
Guardian University Guide 2024
Top
10
for assessment and feedback
BSc (Hons) Psychology - National Student Survey 2024
94
%
of Students agreed that teaching staff are good at explaining things
BSc (Hons) Psychology - National Student Survey 2024
Expert teaching
As a student at the University of Derby you'll be working with lecturers and tutors who have a wealth of knowledge and experience, and are carrying out research designed to offer fresh perspectives on issues that are significant at every stage of life, from birth to old age. Their wide-ranging work includes research into:
Maternal health and the cognitive, motor and social development of new-borns, to help improve health care during childhood
Different aspects of mental health and wellbeing on themes such as maths-induced anxiety, eating disorders, addiction and irrational thinking
Compassion and mindfulness, delivering findings that can help tackle issues of self-esteem and foster sensitive support for others
The psychological aspects of pain, anxiety and addiction, and the effects each can have on identity and relationships
Emotional processing in relation to well-being, compassion and attentional biases and visual attention
The positive benefits that can be derived from engagement with the natural environment
You’ll benefit from this research as your lecturers bring the latest thinking to your studies, and in some cases you will have opportunities to get involved in research projects yourself.
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Exciting career opportunities ahead
Psychology is the scientific study of human thought and behaviour. On this degree, we look at the applications of psychology in a wide range of areas and explore the social, developmental, cognitive and biological dimensions of behaviour.
Knowledge of psychology is invaluable in many walks of life and we place a strong emphasis on preparing you for success in the graduate job market or for further training so that you can become a professional psychologist.
Once you graduate, you'll be able to enter a variety of careers thanks to the range of skills you'll gain with a psychology degree -
see careers information here
.
Draw inspiration from our research
This is a research-led degree, so you’ll have the chance to contribute to the pioneering psychological research projects underway at the University and to conduct your own research too.
You’ll work alongside staff who are conducting influential studies into a vast array of topics including body esteem, maths anxiety, paranormal beliefs, social networking and parenting. You’ll also hear from psychology professionals who deliver regular guest lectures.
Predicting smartphone addiction
Lewis Mitchell, BSc (Hons) Psychology graduate, was already interested in technology addiction after studying our Cyberpsychology module, when he began his research into smartphone addiction.
Find out more about Lewis's research
Find out more about Lewis's research
Dynamic teaching, supportive staff
This degree is designed to stimulate your curiosity and enthusiasm. We take great pride in delivering a highly interactive learning experience which encompasses not only lectures and seminars but also group activities, practical workshops and innovative use of the web.
You will make full and effective use of online resources such as our virtual learning environment and it is little surprise that quality inspectors hailed our course as being “at the forefront of technology-enhanced learning”.
Exceptional student support is a hallmark of this degree. Our friendly and approachable staff invest significant time and effort in ensuring you have all the guidance you need to achieve at every stage of your studies. We offer a full range of support systems at departmental and University levels, with our programme of academic facilitation sessions proving especially valuable.
An ideal setting for teaching and research
Our excellent facilities include high specification computing labs, dedicated project rooms and a full range of psychological recording equipment such as the latest eye tracker technology for analysing eye movement. Our observation suite features rooms with two-way mirrors and DVD recording equipment.
From the outset of your studies, you’ll be introduced to specialist software for experiment design and will receive training in qualitative research. This equips you will skills to conduct interviews, manage focus groups and undertake effective, meaningful research.
Choose from a broad variety of modules
You can select from a vast range of optional modules covering both the applied and theoretical areas of psychology. This allows you to match your studies to your personal interests and career aspirations.
The optional modules available vary from year to year but they could cover subjects as diverse as cyber psychology, sport and exercise psychology, addictive behaviours, family health, psychology in education, the psychology of pain, the dark side of psychology and psychology, nature and wellbeing.
They also include an optional work placement where you can gain vital experience in a workplace setting. Placement hours are subject to change.
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Teaching and learning
We use various teaching methods to make sure that this course is interesting and that you'll learn in an effective way. We don't just teach you in lectures and seminars, you'll also take part in group activities and practical work. You'll also benefit from guest lectures from world-class researchers from around the world.
Assessment
We use a variety of assessment methods, including essays, exams, posters, presentations, and reports. Our assessments enable you to develop a wide range of transferable skills.
You’ll mainly be assessed through assignments, although you may have to take some class tests. For your assignments, you'll need to complete essays on specific topics, but you'll also carry out and write up practical reports in qualitative and quantitative methods and give oral and poster presentations. In exams, you would usually be asked to complete essay questions. However, sometimes exams will include multiple choice and/or short answer questions.
Work placements
Our course includes an optional work placement module, giving you the opportunity to develop skills in real-world settings and further bolster your employability.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Ian Baker
Programme Leader
Dr Ian Baker
Dr Baker is the Assistant Head of Discipline for Psychological and Behavioural Sciences in the School of Psychology, and the Programme Leader for our B.Sc. (Hons) in Psychology degree (including its variants). He is also the Module Lea...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2024 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2024 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
80
A Level
CDD
T Level
Pass (C or above in the core)
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2024/25
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£14,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to essential software (SPSS and NVivo)
Access to any materials included in taught areas such as biopsychology, research methods and related optional modules
DBS check if you are undertaking a placement facilitated by the course
Optional costs not included in your fees
You may wish to purchase optional textbooks or e-books to support your studies - costs for these are dependent on your choice
Printing costs of course materials if hard copy desired - approximate cost is 5p per sheet
Student membership of the British Psychological Society - approximate cost is £30
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
“The pleasure in teaching psychology students is that they tend to be highly motivated and open to exploring ideas. A vital part of our role is to help them chart their future career direction as studying psychology opens so many doors to so many different sectors and professions – anywhere that an understanding of people is valued.” Dr Ian Baker - Programme Leader, BSc (Hons) Psychology
Psychological knowledge is invaluable in many walks of life, so your career options will be broad. Our graduates have gone on to successful roles in sectors such as:
Psychological research
Scientific or clinical research
Charity leadership
Mental health support and management
Health services and therapeutic care
Probation service and police
Human resources
Health psychology
Educational psychology
Occupational psychology
Forensic psychology
Clinical psychology
Teaching
Through our Professional Development Package, you'll gain valuable transferable skills, including:
Written and verbal communication
Research and analytical
Personal motivation, organisation and self-reflection
Numeracy
IT literacy
Critical awareness
This course also prepares you for further training in psychology and provides an essential platform if you would like to become a professional psychologist. You could go on to masters level study with the University of Derby, including our
MSc Behaviour Change
or
MRes Psychology
. As an accredited course, the
MSc Health Psychology
or
MSc Forensic Psychology
will take you further down the route towards becoming a chartered member of the BPS.
Some of our graduates have advanced to qualify in areas such as clinical and educational psychology or have embarked on PhD study.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Psychology BSc (Hons) (on campus)
Forensic Psychology with Foundation Year BSc (Hons) (on campus)
Forensic Psychology BSc (Hons) (on campus)
Psychology BSc (Hons) (online)
Forensic Psychology BSc (Hons) (online)