Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/joint-honours-courses/psychology-and-business-management-ba-bsc-hons/

Psychology and Business Management BA/BSc (Hons) - Joint Honours - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Joint Honours
Psychology and Business Management BA/BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Psychology and Business Management
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
104
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
CN28
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
The best bits
Combining two subjects boosts your employability and gives you the opportunity to develop knowledge and expertise in two subject areas, making you a more versatile graduate
The course is accredited by the British Psychological Society if you major in Psychology
Specialist facilities include our observation suite, eye-tracker equipment and Babylab
Learn from lecturers at the forefront of psychological research
You'll have opportunities to contribute to research projects and conduct your own research
The course is accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) **
You'll gain an extra professional qualification in Management and Leadership on top of your degree **
This course has research at its heart, designed to help you become an effective, skilled and forward-thinking psychologist whilst learning about organisations, their management and the global environments in which they operate.
You'll be taught by expert staff who are conducting influential studies into areas of psychology such as mental health and wellbeing, compassion and mindfulness, autism and maths anxiety.
And you’ll have guest lectures by world-class researchers. You’ll also conduct your own research and be able to contribute to cutting-edge psychological research projects at the University. You can also take a placement year to help you translate theory into practice and enhance your employability.
Through your Business modules, you will be challenged to tackle real-world scenarios through projects, placements and internships. On this course, everyone gets to do business as well as learn about business.
We have recently updated our business management course, so you will cover many growth areas and hot topics, including:
responsible management
business ethics
business analytics
digital media
innovation and globalisation
We’ll help you prepare for a career in a global business environment that is rapidly changing. We'll support you to become more agile, innovative and resilient. You will also develop self-learning and team-working skills, both crucial to success in the professional sphere.
Importantly, you will also learn to see things differently, by working with students from many other countries - both in your classes and online through joint projects with our overseas partner universities. You will see how people from different cultures tackle the same business issue and you'll find that how we do business is affected by who and what we are.
Specialist facilities
Our
Psychology facilities
are used for both teaching and research. They include computing labs with specialist software for designing experiments and research. You'll use a range of psychological recording equipment such as the latest eye-tracker equipment for analysing eye movement and our Babylab for ethical research with babies and young children.
Our
Business facilities
include a Financial Markets Lab where we offer students direct use of financial data, information and analytics to provide a simulation of what it’s like to work on a real trading floor in the financial district. We are committed to delivering the best experience for our students and give them an edge in a competitive market.
Top
20
for student satisfaction
Psychology subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
Top
25
for graduate prospects (on track) - Business and Management Studies subject area
Complete University Guide 2025
Financial Markets Lab
Our students can gain hands-on experience using the same information and technology relied on by financial professionals all over the world, in our Financial Markets Lab.
Find out more
Find out more
Accredited course*
British Psychological Society accreditation means we're delivering a high standard of psychology education. It shows we've met BPS standards for course content and design, and student development. It also means you can apply for BPS student membership. This provides:
Access to networking opportunities
The BPS student online community
Discounts on books
Events and e-learning
Academic journals
The chance to transfer to graduate membership free of charge after completing your degree
And you will have the opportunity to progress to accredited postgraduate qualifications and training to gain chartered membership of the BPS.
For students to receive the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC) of the British Psychological Society (BPS), students need to do the following:
Choose a Psychology major pathway with all prescribed modules
Obtain at least a 40% overall for the Independent Study in Psychology
Obtain at least a lower second-class degree
You may also be eligible for accreditation by the Chartered Management Institute.
Chartered Management Institute accreditation means the CMI has independently assessed that the course meets its own high standards and priorities. The CMI is a UK professional body dedicated to promoting excellence in management and leadership. CMI accreditation is, therefore, a sign of a high-quality degree.
** Students receive this accreditation if they pass the Business Management modules in their first year and select and pass required modules in their second year.
Choose your pathway
Studying a Psychology and Business Management Joint Honours degree allows you to choose whether you major in one subject or study them both equally.
You begin this degree by studying both subjects equally in your first year. By the end of your first year, you will then decide whether you would like to major or minor in a chosen subject or continue to study them both equally.
Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Psychology and Business Management
In this pathway, you study Psychology and Business Management equally.
Bachelor of Science (Honours) in Psychology with Business Management
In this pathway, Psychology is the major subject and includes all prescribed credit bearing modules.  Business Management is the minor subject. Students receive BPS accreditation with this pathway. If students majoring in Psychology do not pass all prescribed credit bearing Psychology modules, the title of the degree will alter to say Psychological Studies.
Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Business Management with Psychology
In this pathway,
Business Management
is the major subject
and
Psychology is the minor subject.
Student stories
How Elodie became a whole new version of herself
Elodie Lee didn’t think she was going to make it to university. A kidney transplant a few months before her A-level exams meant she dropped out of education.
How Natalia's putting business theory into practice
Natalia Jarczynska’s extensive work experience has allowed her to put the skills she is learning on her Business Management degree into practice.
Romaana's passion leads to rare research feat
Psychology student Romaana Kapadi used the skills she gained on our Undergraduate Research Scholarship Scheme to win a valuable University Research Internship.
What is a Joint Honours degree?
A Joint Honours degree offers students the opportunity to study two subjects.
A Joint Honours degree is a great option if:
You want to study two subjects you’re passionate about
You’ve got a specific career in mind and want to create a tailored degree to prepare you for the future
You want to study a new subject alongside one you’re already familiar with
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
The modules below indicate the range of modules you may study as part of this combination, however prescribed and optional modules will vary depending on whether you choose to study both subjects equally, or choose to major or minor in a subject. To find out exactly which modules you would study as part of your chosen combination please contact
jhs@derby.ac.uk
.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You’ll be taught through several learning and teaching methods, such as formal lectures, which will at times include expert speakers, and seminars.
For Psychology modules, you will learn from lecturers and tutors who have a wealth of knowledge and experience, and are carrying out research designed to offer fresh perspectives on issues that are significant at every stage of life, from birth to old age, including:
Maternal health and the development of new-borns, to help improve health care during childhood
Mental health and wellbeing such as maths-induced anxiety, eating disorders, addiction and irrational thinking
Compassion and mindfulness, tackling self-esteem issues and fostering sensitive support for others
The psychological aspects of pain
Emotional processing
The positive benefits of engaging with the natural environment
Your lecturers bring their latest thinking to your studies. And, in some cases, you’ll have opportunities to get involved in research projects yourself. Quality inspectors have commended us for being “at the forefront of technology-enhanced learning” in Psychology.
Teaching methods for Psychology and Business Management modules are varied, interactive and engaging. These include lectures, seminars, practical workshops, work experience and optional placement opportunities.
Seminars can include critical analysis of reading, presentations, group work, debates and general problem solving, interaction with real businesses, case study analysis, computer lab work, practical analysis and formative assessment.
Tutorials: one-to-one sessions with a tutor to discuss the development of assignments
Formal lectures
Work projects
Self-directed study
In addition to direct teaching by faculty staff the University also makes use of blended learning through which students will be able to enhance and progress their learning. Through the university’s online portal; University of Derby Online (UDO) students can access the university virtual learning environment which forms an important part of the delivery of the programme and provide a facility through which tutors can supply lecture notes and presentations, links to learning resources and information and announcement.
How you are assessed
For Psychology modules, you’ll be assessed mainly through assignments, via essays, posters, presentations, and reports. You may also have to take some exams. These can include essay questions, multiple choice and short answer questions.
For Business Management modules, you will be mostly assessed through practical coursework assignments and the sort of tasks you might undertake in a workplace. Sometimes these will be individual tasks and at other times, you will need to work in a group. Assignments could include:
business reports
research
presentations
design of digital materials such as videos, blogs or augmented reality posters
computer-based assessments
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Ruth Sims
Programme Leader
Dr Ruth Sims
Dr Ruth Sims is a senior lecturer in psychology and ergonomics, teaching on-campus psychology, blended learning, and online ergonomics. She has 20 years of experience as a researcher and has now been teaching for over 7 years. Her inte...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
104
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit - Distinction
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Access to HE: Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.5 (with at least 6.0 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Membership of CMI and registration for Level 5 Diploma
Opportunity of part funded trips abroad, optional with limited places available
Access to CIMA exemptions depending upon option choice
Access to essential software (SPSS and NVivo)
Access to any materials included in taught areas such as biopsychology, research methods and related optional modules
DBS check if you are undertaking a placement facilitated by the course
Visit to the British Psychological Society's Psychology4Graduates national event
Optional costs not included in your fees
You may wish to purchase optional textbooks or e-books to support your studies - costs for these are dependent on your choice
Printing costs of course materials if hard copy desired - approximate cost is 5p per sheet
Student membership of the British Psychological Society - approximate cost is £30
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Please note direct applications for this course are not currently available. Please check back for further updates.
Careers
Studying psychology opens doors to many different sectors and professions - anywhere an understanding of people is valued - so your career options will be broad. Our Psychology graduates have gone on to successful roles in sectors such as:
Psychological research
Scientific or clinical research
Charity leadership
Mental health support and management
Health services and therapeutic care
Probation service and police
Human resources
Health psychology
Educational psychology
Occupational psychology
Forensic psychology
Clinical psychology
Teaching
Through our Professional Development Package, you'll gain valuable transferable skills, including:
Written and verbal communication
Research and analytical
Personal motivation, organisation and self-reflection
Numeracy
IT literacy
Critical awareness
If you want to become a Psychologist or progress to Postgraduate study in Psychology, we advise that you major in Psychology including all prescribed credit bearing modules. This means you will receive accreditation from the British Psychological Society.
Because Business Management offers the opportunity to study a variety of subjects, lots of different job roles may be open to you, in areas such as:
Project management
Analysis
Consultancy
Accountancy
Operations
Human resource management
Marketing
Sales
Logistics
Finance
Our links with major employers in the area offer the students opportunities to network, build contacts and develop their confidence which adds to their employability. Students are encouraged to gain work experience through the Derby Internship Programme and offered networking opportunities at the many events through the year such as the recruitment fair, Network of Entrepreneurs, and Business Showcase.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
You will typically study your two subjects equally at stage one, before choosing whether you want to major in one subject at stages two and three.
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Discover Uni
This is a new course so the data displayed via Discover Uni is for students studying in another subject area.
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Business Management BA (Hons)
Psychology BSc (Hons)
Business Management and English BA (Hons)
Psychology and Sociology BA/BSc (Hons)
Business Management and Finance BA (Hons)