Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/english-creative-writing-publishing-courses/publishing-ma/

Publishing MA - English, Creative Writing and Publishing - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
English, Creative Writing and Publishing
Publishing MA
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Publishing
MA
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
You’ll develop key skills, knowledge and experience to give you the edge in a range of rewarding careers
Learn from inspiring and experienced lecturers who have worked in publishing at companies including Bloomsbury and Penguin Random House
Cover every stage of publishing including editorial, production, sales and marketing – from initial ideas to cover design, and from book launches to sales data analysis
Our students have gone on to work for companies including Penguin Random House, HarperCollins, Pan Macmillan, Hachette, Bloomsbury, CPG and Taylor & Francis, while others have set up their own publishing companies and freelance services
Be inspired by a huge range of industry professionals. In the 2022/23 academic year over 30 speakers gave talks for our students, from publishing companies including Hachette, HarperCollins, Bloomsbury, Bonnier, Penguin Random House, Galley Beggar Press, And Other Stories, Oxford University Press, Pan Macmillan, Knights Of, and Routledge - and we also heard talks from published and self-published authors
Engage in research-based scholarship to focus on themes that particularly interest you
Benefit from a challenging cross-disciplinary learning experience
96%
teaching
MA Publishing, Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2023
This course explores all aspects of the publishing industry, including editorial and content development, design and production, sales and marketing, and business success and entrepreneurship. Throughout, you will learn how to respond to the exciting new opportunities facing the industry today and in the future.
An industry full of opportunity
The total value of the British book publishing industry is over £7 billion, the largest in the world in terms of its output per head of population. The growth of ebooks and audiobooks, the ongoing impact of social media on reading habits, and the impact of AI, are all bringing new challenges and opportunities to the industry.
The Derby MA Publishing programme is up-to-date, well balanced and exciting, with all modules including a blend of theory and practice. This tightly focused and complete MA covers industry sectors from trade fiction and non-fiction to children's books and academic, educational and professional publishing.
Combining print and digital know-how
The MA Publishing has been designed to meet the needs of an industry undergoing dramatic technological and commercial changes.
With print, electronic and audio editions of books all now proving highly popular with different consumer demographics, we will ensure you are fully conversant with both traditional publishing techniques and the latest digital developments and self-publishing trends. By the end of the course, you will be equipped to move seamlessly between print and digital formats whenever required.
New skills for a new era
Publishing companies are keen to dispel the myth that all you need for success in the industry is a love of literature and reading. New entrants are now expected to bring industry-specific professional skills along with qualities such as innovation, versatility, enterprise and problem-solving.
Our MA therefore covers vital insights not just into editorial functions but also into aspects of the business such as leadership and management, project management, marketing, intellectual property law, and finance. This programme provides a comprehensive and well-balanced training to enter a wide variety of careers in publishing and beyond.
Expertise to inspire you
Our teaching team comprises enthusiastic, dedicated academics and practitioners with extensive experience in the UK, US and Australian publishing industries, encompassing editorial, marketing, publicity and freelance work.
International Students
The British publishing industry is one of the largest and most important in the world, exporting more books than any other country, and at the forefront of many developments such as digital business models, English language publishing, niche products and globalised business. By coming from overseas to study Publishing at MA level International students will receive unparalleled insights, knowledge base and training in every aspect of this dynamic, global industry.
Hear from our graduates
As part of the University of Derby's Festival of Humanities, our Publishing MA Alumni joined Senior Lecturers in Publishing Cat Mitchell and David Barker to discuss 'How to get into Publishing', offering valuable insight and career advice to join the creative and commercial industry.
Read more: How to get into Publishing
Read more: How to get into Publishing
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
The course is made up of three stages - Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma and Masters.
You will study modules such as:
Modules
The Publishing Profession
What does it mean to be a publisher today? you'll analyse new issues and big trends facing the world of books, literature and the wider publishing profession. Guest speakers and round-table seminars will contribute to a lively, stimulating and highly supportive learning environment.
Editorial and Editing
Here you will examine the ethical and practical issues of being a senior editor. Which books deserve to be published, and why? How do commissioning editors build a successful list of titles? When is it acceptable to change or ‘correct’ an author’s writing? Explore issues of bias, taste, morality – and profit – in publishers’ everyday decisions about what gets published and how.
Print and Digital Production
There are many stimulating and creative job roles in publishing, none more so than in design and production. In this module you will examine design theory and practice as well as project and systems management. You will explore how new projects are conceived, designed and brought to market in both print and in digital formats, on time and on budget.
Marketing and Sales in Modern Publishing
Publishing is a highly competitive business where success depends upon innovative marketing and sales operations. In this crucial module you will explore social media marketing, big data, market analysis, sales reporting and marketing theory. Learn the theory and practice of how marketing professionals deal with authors, signings and events, book promotion, and negotiating with booksellers.
Optional Modules
Legal Frameworks for Publishers
Skills for Modern Publishing
Academic, Educational and Professional Publishing
Magazine Publishing
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
You will learn through a mixture of seminars, lectures, workshops and applied study, with a focus on real world learning. You will have exciting opportunities to gain experience with publishers, booksellers and events organisers and to gain insights into the freelance world of indexing, proofreading and design.
You could attend book fairs and festivals, volunteer at author events and book launches or take part in live projects working on the in-house publications produced by the University.
Students will be encouraged and supported to undertake various forms of work-related learning and experience, including internships at major publishers.
Thanks to our networks across the creative, media and cultural sectors, you will have the chance to make valuable contacts. We offer a vibrant programme of guest lectures and we host events where authors, editors and publishers speak about the realities of making a living in the field.
Programme leader
Dr David Barker
worked in publishing for over 20 years, split equally between London and New York. During his career, he worked at Cassell, Continuum, and Bloomsbury and commissioned non-fiction books about all aspects of pop culture. His research interests focus on the editorial process in publishing and how this needs to become more diverse.
How you'll be assessed
You will learn through a mixture of seminars, lectures, workshops and applied study.
Your work will be assessed using a wide range of methods, including oral and written presentations, reports, essays and portfolios of practical work in areas such as editing, production, marketing, design and digital publishing.
Who will teach you
Dr David Barker
Programme Leader
Dr David Barker
David Barker is a Senior Lecturer in Publishing and Programme Leader for the MA Publishing at the University of Derby. He is interested in all aspects of Publishing as an academic discipline.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
The entry requirement to this programme is a good honours degree (1st or 2:1) in any subject, or its international equivalent. Applications may be considered if you have a 2:2 honours degree and can demonstrate significant publishing or related industry experience or aptitude. Examples might include a period of work at an appropriate level within publishing or a related industry, or a portfolio of work or achievements in a related discipline such as for example, English, Business, Law, Graphic Design, etc.
It is important that we get to know you, your aspirations and your expectations. Therefore, depending on your qualifications and experience, you may be invited to attend an informal interview before being accepted onto the programme to discuss the course, the nature of the programme, and what will be expected of you during it. Interviews will normally take place online and will last between 30 and 45 minutes. You are also invited to attend an
Open Day
/Evening event on campus if you can.
The University welcomes applications from every sector of society, and the
College of Arts, Humanities and Education
is a signatory to the Equality in Publishing Charter.
If English is not your first language you will need to have passed the International English Language Teaching System (IELTS) at the overall level IELTS 6.5, including a minimum score of 5.5 in each test category.
The test must be taken within the last two years leading up to the course start date and must still be valid when a visa is issued.
(Where appropriate the University’s International Admissions office can give further details, including information regarding approved IELTS test centres.) The English language qualification required by this programme is at a higher level than that required for other university programmes: The reason for this is that throughout the MA Publishing programme, you will have to work with the English language at an advanced level.
If you are interested in finding out more about the MA Publishing, you may contact the Programme Leader by email at
d.barker@derby.ac.uk
.
Interview information
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course*
£1,080 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
The fee includes any mandatory study visits and some social events
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Minimal printing costs starting at 5p per sheet
Optional costs not included in your fees
It is possible that students will have minor costs from engaging in work experience
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
A broad choice
The MA Publishing will equip you with a broad range of skills, a critical awareness of the whole industry, a high degree of flexibility and an enterprising mindset. It will prepare you for careers with major publishing houses or the growing number of small publishers, including the thousands of ‘micro-publishers’, which exist within the UK. You could also consider becoming self-employed or setting up your own publishing company.
There are opportunities, too, to work in publishing roles within charitable organisations, government bodies and cultural organisations such as galleries and museums.
Much of the knowledge and many of the skills you will attain on this MA are highly transferable. The course is a perfect springboard for a wide range of professional careers such as magazine publishing, librarianship, bookselling, PR, communications, or illustration and web design.
Ensuring you’re ‘work-ready’
Our Careers and Employability Service will provide you with support from day one of your course to ensure that you leave Derby as a ‘work-ready’ graduate – industry aware, motivated and enterprising.
The support continues once you’ve completed your course too: you are entitled to further help and guidance from the Careers and Employment Service for up to three years after leaving the University.
If your ambition is to set up your own business in the publishing field, you could consider moving into one of our incubation units which offer reasonable rents and a range of business support services to help you establish your venture.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Creative Writing MA