Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/journalism-courses/public-relations-and-journalism-ba-hons/

Public Relations and Journalism BA (Hons) - Journalism - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Journalism
Public Relations and Journalism BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Public Relations and Journalism
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 Years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
JNP1
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
Public Relations and Journalism professionals are in demand in today’s business world and the skills required to be successful in both industries are closely aligned.
There are more than 50,000 journalists working in the UK today, and 100,000 PR professionals practise the same skills to thrive in agencies, businesses and community organisations.
They need excellent communication skills – written, broadcast and visual – and a high level of expertise and business acumen in the worlds of traditional and digital media as well as sound marketing knowledge.
This new programme will give you a competitive advantage in both environments and enable you to choose multiple communications career pathways in media, PR or marketing. It combines cutting-edge multimedia skills with high-level PR and marketing expertise that employers value and need.
The highlights
This course equips you with the skills to pursue a wide range of media-based career options - building strategic PR and marketing expertise alongside an excellent journalistic skillset.
Many communications professionals have long careers which span both journalism and PR, and people with skills in both spheres can make this transition seamlessly; it also makes them highly desirable employees.
This programme offers access to the best of all worlds with dedicated journalism, public relations and marketing modules across all three years of the degree.
Build an impressive set of practical journalistic skills – digital and written – which are in huge demand within the communications departments of major organisations, while the strategic knowledge of PR and marketing enhances employability prospects within many creative industries.
You will be trained by industry-respected professionals in skills ranging from podcasting and brand management to live PR campaigning and specialist video news content creation.
You will also enhance your employability prospects by working within our unique in-house PR and communications agency, UniComms Derby. This will ensure you are industry-ready and have a portfolio of work to prove your value.
In addition, students can publish their work on our online platforms: the StoryHub (insert link) website and X feed. You will also get the opportunity to gain work experience with media outlets which have previously included Reach plc and the BBC.
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Year one
In the first year, all modules are core to your studies. You will have two dedicated Public Relations modules then join BA (Hons) Marketing students and BA (Hons) Journalism students for other modules to give you a broad knowledge of each specialism. The aim of the first year is to provide learning and practice opportunities for core essential PR, marketing and journalism skills along with academic research skills.
PR skills
Newswriting
Discovering Audio and Video
Introduction to PR and Communication Theory
Managing the Brand
Media Law
Year two
In the second year, you are required to take four core 20-credit modules which again build up vital knowledge and understanding of PR, marketing and journalism skills. In the Spring semester, you will have your first experience of working within our in-house PR and communications agency, UniComms Derby working on live PR campaigns for clients across Derbyshire and beyond.
You will also select one 20-credit module in each of the autumn and spring semesters to reflect your future interests and preferred specialisms.
There is also an option for you to study abroad in the spring semester.
PR Content Creation
Convergent Media
Celebrity Media and Culture
Fashion Journalism
PR and Media Management
Future Trends in Journalism
Consumer Behaviour
Multi-Platform Journalism News Days
International Study
Year three
In the third year, you will choose one core 40-credit module spanning the autumn and spring semesters. The PR Campaigning module provides the opportunity to develop and implement a full-scale campaign through our in-house agency UniComms - delivering launch activity, media materials and coverage, managing social media output and a final awards event. The Journalism Project module offers a flexible assessment allowing you to produce an academic dissertation or practice-based journalism on a topic of your choice (the genres allowed include podcasts, long-form features or documentaries).
You will then select two 20-credit modules in each of the autumn and spring semesters, to reflect your chosen specialism. This could be a choice of audio or video journalism skills or social media content creation and specialist brand marketing modules. In addition, the Start-Up Journalism module will take you through self-employment and freelancing options to ensure you are fully prepared for diverse career pathways upon graduation.
PR Campaigning
Journalism Project
PR and Social Media
Video Newsdays
Online Community Management
Marketing Across Cultures
Podcasting and Live Radio
Start-up Journalism
Content, Copywriting and Creativity
Brand Impact and Popular Culture
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
In the first year, you will build a vital core knowledge of each discipline with news writing, audio and video, PR skills and marketing brand management sitting alongside media law.
In the second year, a series of core modules ensure the media-based skills continue to develop with PR and Media Management, Content Creation and Future Trends in Journalism complemented by optional modules which will enable you to begin to specialise in areas such as digital and social media or fashion journalism, or even spend a semester studying abroad to gain an international perspective and knowledge.
The third year will provide opportunities to refine your PR and Journalism skills to a high level. You can choose between two core modules: PR Campaigning or Journalism Project to structure your degree to suit your career pathways.
You can also choose from a wide range of optional modules that include social media management and content copywriting, podcasting, video news days and online community management.
For entrepreneurial students, there is also the option to explore self-employment in a Start-Up business module. Here you can plan and launch your own media-based business idea, combining all your journalistic, PR and marketing skills.
The largely practical nature of the degree means that you will graduate with a portfolio of work to showcase to employers.
You will learn in a variety of ways, including through:
workshops
news days
work experience/real projects for employers
lectures and seminars, including guest lectures from key industry figures
field trips
technical visits
conferences.
Studying abroad
In your second year, there is the option to study abroad for the Spring semester. The university has links with a number of respected universities in Europe and The United States.
How you are assessed
You will be assessed by coursework assignments, which may include:
PR and marketing plans
features and news articles
videography and podcasting
live broadcasting
social media campaigns
smartphone and smart speaker journalism
academic essays.
These assignments will enable you to build up a wide-ranging portfolio of work to show employers when you graduate.
Who you'll meet
Joanne Hine
is a Senior Lecturer in Public Relations and Journalism. An award-winning PR professional, her career spans 35 years of print and magazine journalism and PR working with national and international brands.
Alex Canner
is Programme Leader for BA (Hons) Journalism and specialises in broadcast media, teaching all aspects of writing and podcasting, as well as recording and editing techniques across TV, radio and Multimedia.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Joanne Hine
Programme Leader
Joanne Hine
Joanne teaches mainly on the BA (Hons) Journalism and BA (Hons) Magazine Journalism programmes, specialising in Public Relations.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
Additional entry requirements
Portfolio: Recommended -
view portfolio details
English language requirements
IELTS: 7.0 (with at least 6.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to the Equipment Centre which stocks a huge range of cameras, audio equipment, and accessories which are available for booking by students at no cost
Various day field trips – for example, these have included Alton Towers, Shrovetide Football, the Bradford National Media Museum, and Escape rooms in the past year
Mandatory trips to media companies or other interesting organisations. Previous trips have included visiting BBC Radio Derby, the Derby Telegraph, the Nottingham Post and BBC News and Sport at Salford
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Some equipment including storage drives (about £10) and external storage drives (£50 - £100) for use with cameras.
Optional costs not included in your fees
It is useful but not essential to have a smartphone (£50 - £750)
Some students choose to buy accessories for the phone such as external microphones (approx. £10 - £15) and tripods (£5 - £25)
Some students also find it useful to purchase their own laptop for use in the field but this is not required (from £150)
It is also possible that you will want to travel to cover particular news stories - as this is not required by the course, the cost is not covered in your fees.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
This course equips graduates to find employment in both Public Relations and Journalism. In the PR field, our former students work as content creators, social media managers and copywriters for international agencies, major sport, fashion and high-street brands. Many also go into PR agencies as account executives. In journalism recent graduates have become researchers on national BBC political programmes, reporters for Derbyshire Live and Nottinghamshire Live, station sound producers and broadcast journalists on regional BBC Radio.
The degree also enables graduates to enter other careers, having obtained sufficient transferable skills, particularly in communication, critical thinking, problem-solving, collaboration and teamwork to gain employment in the wider creative industries, for example in marketing, research analysis, advertising, arts, design, fashion, film, video, photography, music, publishing, research and development.
You can also continue your higher education journey and pursue MA education in related areas including Media, Journalism (Broadcast, Magazine or Sport) or Creative Writing and Publishing. Our current MA and research students are encouraged to share their research findings and at times they may be invited as guest speakers to your lessons where relevant.
If you would like to continue your studies at masters level, our
MA Journalism
or
MA Creative and Cultural Industries
are the ideal next step.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Other courses you might like
Journalism BA (Hons)
Football Journalism BA (Hons)
Specialist Sports Journalism BA (Hons)