Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/quality-improvement-implementing/

Quality Improvement - Implementing - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Quality Improvement - Implementing
Apply now
Apply now
Professional Course
Quality Improvement- Implementing
Apply
Apply
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Module details
Module code
7RD508
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
40 credits
Next course date
September, January
Duration
3 months
Location
Distance learning
Module description
About this module
This module follows on from Quality Improvement- Principles and preparation putting your planned project into action. You will critique the process of implementing your improvement justifying decisions and managing the change, including systems and stakeholders. A core feature of this module is reflective practice, supporting personal and professional development.
On this module you will consider:
Current developments of quality improvement in health and social care
Applying service improvement theories and methodologies to the workplace
Evidence-based practice
Experiencing leadership for service improvement
Experiencing entrepreneurial and creativity qualities
Undertaking project management and strategic planning for service improvement
Employing change management principles (personal, professional and organisational)
Undertaking evaluation strategies
Measuring improvement in the workplace
Engaging with stakeholders
Working with teams.
Who is this course for
All health professionals
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Critically evaluate the courses of action relating to implementing quality improvement taking into account issues beyond the immediate area of practice.
Manage quality improvement activities effectively in the workplace, responding to value-conflicts and uncertainties which extend beyond the immediate area of practice.
Demonstrate innovation and strategic thinking in the implementation of service improvement activities.
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Employ thought-through courses of action relating to implementing service improvement taking into account issues beyond the immediate area of practice.
Manage service improvement activities effectively in the workplace, responding to value-conflicts and uncertainties which extend beyond the immediate area of practice.
Demonstrate innovation and strategic thinking in the implementation of service improvement activities.
Entry requirements
You must have completed
Quality Improvement - Principles and Preparation
in order to undertake this module.
Fees and funding
The full cost of this module is £1,400.
How to apply
Apply directly to the University
Empower your workforce with block bookings
Take advantage of a short courses block booking to upskill your employees. Our short courses run on-campus and online and include new legislation and other up-to-the-minute issues. Get in touch today and we will tailor a package to meet the needs of your business.
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Kirsty Wood
k.wood@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 593087
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.