Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/quality-improvement-principles-and-preparation/

Quality Improvement - Principles and Preparation - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Quality Improvement - Principles and Preparation
Apply now
Apply now
Professional Course
Quality Improvement - Principles and Preparation
Apply
Apply
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Module details
Module code
7RD517
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
September, January
Duration
3 months
Location
Distance learning
Module description
About this module
It is the foundation to service improvement knowledge and skills at a postgraduate level and responds to the quality improvement and service improvement agenda through effective employment of service improvement theories, tools and strategic planning to an individual's area of practice. The aim, therefore, is to develop practitioners in health and social care have the capability, confidence and skills to engage with quality and service improvement within their own field of practice through the use of appropriate tools, strategic measurement and project management.
Individuals will explore the context of quality and service improvement within their own practice area, acknowledging change management alongside evidence-based strategies for improvement but will use this module to plan their own service improvement practice.
Who is this course for
All Health Professionals at all levels.
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Investigate, analyse and evaluate available quality improvement knowledge and skills appropriate for your workplace.
Demonstrate insight into the dilemmas and value-conflicts associated with introducing quality improvement.
Demonstrate innovation and strategic thinking in the planning of quality improvement activities.
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Research, analyse and evaluate available service improvement knowledge and skills appropriate for your workplace.
Demonstrate insight into the dilemmas and value-conflicts associated with introducing service improvement.
Demonstrate innovation and strategic thinking in the planning of service improvement activities.
Entry requirements
You must hold a position in a Healthcare department to be able to undertake this module and have support prior to enrolment on this module.
Fees and funding
The full cost of this module is £700.
How to apply
Apply directly to the University
Empower your workforce with block bookings
Take advantage of a short courses block booking to upskill your employees. Our short courses run on-campus and online and include new legislation and other up-to-the-minute issues. Get in touch today and we will tailor a package to meet the needs of your business.
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Kirsty Wood
k.wood@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 593087
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.