Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/built-environments-courses/quantity-surveying-and-commercial-management-bsc-hons-foundation/

Quantity Surveying and Commercial Management with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)  - Built Environments - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Built Environments
Quantity Surveying and Commercial Management with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Quantity Surveying and Commercial Management with Foundation Year
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
K24F
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
Quantity surveyors are highly sought after because they combine financial and business acumen with first-rate technical skills. Featuring a foundation year to give you a strong platform for success, this degree will put you on the path to senior positions in the construction industry.
Once you have completed your Foundation Year, you'll join a course accredited by the
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS)
, the
Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB)
, and the
Chartered Institution of Civil Engineering Surveyors (CICES)
Gain the ideal preparation for a demanding, responsible and rewarding career as a chartered quantity surveyor
Develop a broad and sound understanding of the scientific, technological, professional, legal and management skills related to key areas of quantity surveying
Choose a course designed in close collaboration with employers and aligned to professional practice in the industry
Take an optional work placement between stages two and three – you will gain valuable experience in developing the skills and knowledge employers are looking for
Built Environments - your questions answered
In the below video, Programme Leader for Civil Engineering, Derek Spalton, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Built Environments at the University of Derby.
View Built Environments - your questions answered! video transcript
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
If you are looking for a varied and challenging career, our BSc (Hons) Quantity Surveying and Commercial Management is a smart choice. We will equip you with all the skills you need to provide clients with value for money while meeting the strict regulations which govern the construction industry.
A dynamic profession
Quantity surveying entails essential skills related to the planning and procurement of construction activity, including involvement in various parts of the design and construction process. It could be advising a client about this month’s valuation or speaking with an engineer to assess the cost implications of a design solution.
Our new BSc (Hons) Quantity Surveying and Commercial Management programme will help you to develop, enhance and deepen those skills in accordance with latest industry thinking.
Important industry partnerships
Developed in close collaboration with employers, this course is aligned to professional practice in the construction industry. Our strong industrial links will ensure that your studies are technologically relevant and that you acquire all the knowledge and abilities you need to practise as a quantity surveyor.
A rich learning experience
You will learn through group work, individual assignments, lectures, seminars, site visits, field studies and site/building surveys. All these serve a variety of functions essential to the education of built environment professionals.
Assessment of your project work will be undertaken on a continuous basis, involving either individual or group assessment. Assessment of group work may entail an element of peer group review which will contribute to your overall performance.
You can also get involved with local projects, for example
Down to Earth Derby's
'New Commons'. For the last several years we have been working with Down to Earth Derby, on nature-based regeneration and connecting communities with nature and growing food. A major project we are working on at the moment, with the Eden Project, is a community garden on part of Sturgess Fields, a site owned by the University between Kedleston Road and Markeaton Street sites. The plan is to create a New Commons that will be managed with the community. There are opportunities for you to work on this project, designing sustainable buildings and structures.
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Real world learning
You will learn through a mixture of lectures, seminars, tutorials, site visits and visits to companies.
How you are assessed
You will be assessed through computer workshops, surveying field work, group work and individual assignments and examinations.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Martin Adlington
Programme Leader
Martin Adlington
Martin Adlington is the Head of Civil Engineering, Construction Management and Quantity Surveying, Programme Leader, Senior Lecturer, Assessor and External Examiner with significant experience in all aspects of learning, development an...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Free membership of accredited bodies
Year 1 Compulsory Field trip within England, 4 day residential: coach, bed and breakfast
Day trips to free entry venues or construction sites
AutoCAD student version downloadable in personal computer
Use of all labs and appropriate PPE supplied including personal safety boots
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Year 1 Field trip main meals approx. £20 per day
Additional field trips and site visits £100
Additional materials (printing, stationery, portfolio sleeves, folders, etc.)
Optional costs not included in your fees
Optional 4 to 5 day trip abroad with a student contribution of approx. £100 to £200 depending on numbers, which covers flights and hotel and breakfast. University contribution: coach travel, entry to museums and iconic buildings, metro card, guided tour and booklet
Any travel for paid placements
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Highly sought after due to their financial and business acumen, quantity surveyors often hold very senior positions in industry, local government and central government. You will find that career opportunities also exist in a number of related fields, including the built environment, civil and heavy engineering and the offshore and petrochemical industries.
Quantity surveyors are responsible for the cost of any building project - from initial estimates right through to the final acquisition of materials. Surveying jobs and their associated roles are varied, but generally focussed on providing clients with value for money while adhering to the strict regulations which govern every aspect of the construction industry.
Day-to-day responsibilities include roles inside the office, on the construction site or in meetings with clients and other project personnel. While the very nature of construction work ensures that no two projects are ever the same, a typical work day might involve:
preparation of contracts, including details regarding the quantities of required materials
on-going cost analysis of maintenance and repair work
feasibility studies of client requests
analysing completed work and arranging payment to contractors
allocating upcoming work to contractors
site visits, assessments and projections for future work
Quantity surveyors may choose to specialise in a specific area of the construction industry and concentrate on areas like property taxation, costing advice, maintenance of existing buildings and application to funding sources.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Quantity Surveying and Commercial Management BSc (Hons)