Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/radiographic-image-analysis-of-the-chest/

Radiographic Image Analysis of the Chest - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Radiographic Image Analysis of the Chest
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Radiographic Image Analysis of the Chest
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Learning outcomes
Benefits
Entry requirements
Module details
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
September
Duration
5 days plus assessment day
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Lecture/workshop days - dates/times
September
Tutorial dates/times
September, October and November
Exam dates/times
January
Module description
Learning Beyond Registration
(LBR) is a vital part of developing competent, capable health service practitioners prepared to deliver a dynamic, flexible, quality, client-focused service. If you're employed by the NHS in the East Midlands then you may be eligible for fee-free access to our LBR modules and/or programmes. You'll need to supply evidence of approval from your line manager and Trust Education Lead when you apply.
What you'll cover
Normal radiographic appearances of the chest
Clinical indications and referral protocols for imaging of the chest
Basic radiographic techniques
Interpretation of normal variants
An introduction to the interpretation of abnormal radiographic appearances of the Chest
Common pitfalls How You Learn
There is a multi-professional approach to study with key note lectures online supported with case study discussions and image viewing.
Who is this course for
This module can be studied as part of an Advanced Practice pathway or as a module on its own for CPD.
To undertake this course you must have evidence of study at BSc (Hons) level and professional registration. This module has a built in assessment day and is composed of online teaching, self-directed study and some campus based activity. The aim of this course is to introduce the participant to a systemic approach used in the analysis of radiographic images of the chest in line with their own professional requirements.
Course team
Alexandra Partner
Richard Tucker
Structure, certificates and assessment
How you are assessed:
Portfolio
OSCE
VIVA
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Correlate clinical manifestations to radiographic appearances and pathophysiological processes.
Formulate a clinical diagnostic opinion from the analysis of and the interpretation of radiological findings.
Benefits
What can you use this credit for next?
MSc Advanced Practice Programme at the University of Derby
Benefit to the employee
This will increase your knowledge in a specific area of practive. You may wish to go on and do formal reporting chest courses and that this will support your learning towards that.
Benefit to the employer
Your staff will be more knowledgeable and confident at analysis of chest x-rays and the underlying principles of image quality.
Entry requirements
Hold an undergraduate degree
Professional registration with HCPC/NMC or equivalent
Empower your workforce with block bookings
Take advantage of a short courses block booking to upskill your employees. Our short courses run on-campus and online and include new legislation and other up-to-the-minute issues. Get in touch today and we will tailor a package to meet the needs of your business.
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
Module: Alex Partner (Programme Leader)
a.partner@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 593035
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.