Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/nursing-courses/radiographic-imaging-projectional-certificate-of-credit-online/

Radiographic Imaging (Projectional) Certificate of Credit - Nursing - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Nursing
Radiographic Imaging (Projectional) Certificate of Credit
Apply now
Apply now
Undergraduate Course
Radiographic Imaging (Projectional) Certificate of Credit
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 10 weeks
UK fee
£875
(2024/25)
‡
Start dates
September, May
Location
Online
The highlights
Specifically designed to enable Assistant Practitioners in imaging departments to gain the necessary projectional (plain film) radiography competency required to apply for the
BSc (Hons) Diagnostic Radiography Apprenticeship (Progression) programme
if you have not already studied this as part of your Foundation degree
This course covers the foundations of radiographic practice for the appendicular skeleton, thorax, and abdomen. This course will also enable you to gain skills in assessing images in terms of skeletal and soft tissue anatomy, together with appropriate quality measures
This Certificate of Credit Radiographic Imaging (Projectional) course will introduce you to the foundation of projectional radiographic practice (plain film imaging) for the appendicular skeleton, thorax, and abdomen.
The course covers the relevant skeletal anatomy (bones and joints of the appendicular skeleton and thorax) to develop skills in the recognition and assessment of normal radiographic appearances.
The integration of radiographic techniques with the evaluation of normal radiographic appearances will enable you to apply your knowledge and understanding within your clinical practice.
In the workplace, you will work in a clinical imaging department undertaking projectional radiography (under supervision), working within your scope of practice. You'll be encouraged to gain experience in a range of appendicular techniques and chest imaging (static and mobile) and to attend and assist with theatre imaging as part of this course.
This course is an optional module within our
Assistant Practice Foundation Degree programme
and can be completed as a standalone 10-week course. You will gain 20 credits at level 4 with a Certificate of Credit to evidence your learning achievement.
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Discovering Online Learning webinar: December 2024
Thursday, 5 December 2024 12.00 - 13.00
During this hour long webinar, we'll take you through how online learning works and what you can expect as an online student with the University of Derby.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
Teaching and Learning
This course is made up of ten units to build on your knowledge, skills, and behaviours within projection (sometimes referred to as 'plain film') radiography, both in an academic sense and within the imaging department during your 'on-the-job' learning.
It introduces you to the foundations of radiographic practice (the appendicular skeleton, thorax, and abdomen) and enable you to assess images in terms of skeletal and soft tissue anatomy and appropriate technical factors. Your role as an assistant radiographic practitioner and the development of your projection radiography skills are the sole focus of this course.
You may have already spent time working in other areas of the imaging department and have strong skills in person-centred care and all the other important aspects of the role of an assistant radiographic practitioner, such as data protection, infection control, and multi-disciplinary team working. However, this does not mean you won't continue to develop and hone these aspects of your practice as you progress through the units and module.
You will study the relevant skeletal anatomy (bones and joints of the appendicular skeleton and thorax) in detail to develop skills in recognizing and assessing normal radiographic appearances. It is also important that you develop an understanding of the relevant musculature, ligaments, and tendons as a foundation for understanding typical image appearances that you will begin to study as you progress to level 5 or if you choose to progress to a practitioner role later.
You will complete activities such as reflections in your journal, posts in the discussion space (where you will interact with your peers), knowledge check quizzes, and other interactive activities, as well as conduct self-directed learning and revision to address any knowledge gaps. The integration of radiographic techniques with the evaluation of normal radiographic appearances will enable you to apply your knowledge and understanding to clinical practice.
In your on-the-job learning, you will work in a clinical imaging department undertaking projection radiography (under supervision), within your scope of practice. You'll be encouraged to gain experience in a range of appendicular techniques, chest imaging (static and mobile), and assist with theatre imaging, so you begin to gain an appreciation of the role of a radiographer.
Pace of study
We recommend about 6 hours of off the job study per week to complete this 20-credit course over a 10-week trimester, together with at least 24 hours per week in the workplace ‘on the job’ to consolidate your learning (240 hours in total for clinical practice).
Assessment method
There are two assessment components: You will sit an online exam, and you will also submit a practice document (reflective learning log) where you will record your 240 hours of observed practice, which will be confirmed by a clinical educator (or equivalent).
The reflective learning log will demonstrate that you have completed 240 hours of observed practice in an imaging department, undertaking a range of projectional radiography imaging techniques under supervision.
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Entry requirements
Applicants are required to:
be in current employment as an Assistant Practitioner in a radiography department within the UK
have the ability to obtain a minimum of 240 hours in projection radiography to complete the course
have a named workplace mentor to oversee and supervise your practice development and attest to your radiographic competence. As an entry requirement for this course, you are required to identify a suitably qualified* member of staff to act in this capacity
Manager's approval form
completed by your line manager confirming their support and that you will have access to relevant learning opportunities associated with the role of Assistant practitioner in a radiography department and required learning outcomes of the course. The form will also confirm allocation of a suitably qualified workplace mentor
If this course is being completed as part of an intention to make an application to the BSc (Hons) Diagnostic Radiography apprenticeship (progression) programme, applicants must also have achieved a Foundation degree (FdSc)** as an Assistant Practitioner in a radiographic imaging pathway normally completed within the previous 5 years.
A workplace audit form must be completed to demonstrate that the applicant will be able to experience the range of projection radiography examinations required as part of this course.
*Suitably qualified means this person must be a HCPC registered Diagnostic Radiographer with a minimum of two years experience post qualification, ideally PEAS accredited and/or can demonstrate that they have undertaken mentor/supervisor training with a HEI organisation.
**The Healthcare Assistant Practitioner Apprenticeship Standard Reference: ST0215, is satisfactory, if modules in skeletal imaging (that include appendicular imaging), radiographic anatomy and radiation physics have been completed.
English language qualifications
If English is not your first language, you will require IELTS with an overall score of 6.5 with no less than 6 in any category, or an equivalent English qualification.
Find out more about our English language requirements
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK
£875
1 x 20 credits
£875
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK
£925
1 x 20 credits
£925
About your fees
Prices are correct for the year of entry shown. These are subject to annual increase in subsequent academic years.
Flexible payment plan available
Pay monthly
for the course that you are studying
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
The application deadline for the September 2024 intake, is 6 September.
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Completed
Manager's approval form
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Careers
This short course will assist you in your role as an Assistant Practitioner within the imaging department. It will also enable you to achieve the competence in projectional radiography required to apply to the
BSc (Hons) Diagnostic Radiography Apprenticeship (Progression) programme
if this is something you have not already completed as part of your foundation degree as an Assistant Practitioner.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
Assistant Practitioner Higher Apprenticeship
Diagnostic Radiography Degree Apprenticeship