Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/registered-nurse-degree-apprenticeship-msc/

Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship MSc - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Apprenticeship Course
Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship MSc
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Benefits
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Course level
Level 7
Next course date
September
Duration
Full-time: 2 years
Delivery
Face to face
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Course description
Our nursing programmes are approved against the NMC's
Future nurse: Standards of Proficiency for Registered Nurses
Upon successful completion of the programme, you will be eligible to apply for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council in your chosen field of practice
Your employer will provide a range of placements in different clinical settings to enable you to gain essential practical experience.
Benefit from some of the best university facilities of their kind, including our clinical skills suite and our state-of-the-art immersive suite
You will be supported by a highly experienced and enthusiastic teaching team who provide full support to help you achieve your ambitions.
This programme is a holistic learning experience, enabling students to become emotionally resilient and transformational Registered Nurses of the future. This is a two-year, full-time programme and supports those with a prior degree (2:2 or above) to become a Registered Nurse at an accelerated pace. You will also need prior work experience in a service user context, allowing you to demonstrate the skills that underpin professional nursing registration. Your prior experiences will contribute to the learning opportunities within the course and together these will provide eligibility to apply for registration as a nurse with the NMC.
Students develop an in-depth and comprehensive understanding about their chosen field of practice and recognise the principles of nursing across all fields and across the lifespan.  Modules provide the foundation for students to develop a compassionate professionalism whereby they are trusted in the care they provide. Learning will be facilitated through a range of classroom-based activities, skills laboratories and by electronic means such as online learning, web-based training and technology-delivered instruction.
Expertise to inspire you
You'll be supported by enthusiastic and dedicated academic staff who are immersed in their areas of practice and committed to supporting you at every stage of your studies. All academic staff are current NMC registered professionals with some continuing to work in clinical practice alongside their teaching role.  The academic team includes renowned professionals whose work features regularly in leading journals and books and who help shape national policies.
This course is mapped against the NMC standards to ensure that your learning is up to date and relevant. In delivering the programme, we respond to national changes such as the latest government policies. As a result, some of the information about the course may change.
Wide-ranging placement experience
A compulsory part of the course is practice learning which equates to 50% of the overall programme in line with the NMC standards (NMC, 2018). Students must complete a range of placements to meet the minimum hours requirement for practice learning and to support the application of theory to practice.
Practice learning is achieved through a variety of placement experiences to enable you to gain essential practical experience by participating in 24-hour care. Throughout, you'll benefit from the support of Practice Assessors and Practice Supervisors who will help you get as much out of the experience as possible.
First class facilities
Our Derby campus offers outstanding facilities, including clinical skills suites built to professional standards, with replica wards, counselling rooms and treatment rooms fully equipped with the latest resources.
As health care is increasingly delivered by multi professional teams, we offer opportunities for you to learn with, and from, students from other disciplines. This is really important in preparing you to work in more flexible ways after graduation. By learning to work together, you can help achieve the best outcomes for patients and service users.
Students also participate in learning that is specific to their field but is also co-taught across the four fields of nursing. There is opportunity for students studying at different academic levels to learn with, and from each other. This provides opportunity to meet the NMC standards whilst replicating professional relationships that students encounter in clinical practice.
Study one of our pathways:
Nursing (Adult) with NMC registration MSc
Nursing (Children's) with NMC registration = MSc
Nursing (Mental Health) with NMC registration MSc
What you will study
The course is delivered over two academic years; however, practice is assessed in three equal parts.  This is an intensive course, and you will need commitment, motivation and a desire to succeed. The programme holds high expectations that you are engaged and ready to be an independent learner and that you are able to meet the theory and practice hours required by the NMC that reflect this full-time programme of study.
Students complete a range of modules to develop the fundamental knowledge and skills for safe, effective nursing practice where the interests of people using or needing nursing services, are put first. These modules provide the foundation for you to develop a caring professionalism where you can be trusted in the care you provide.
Changing career paths to become a front face in patient care
"To anyone thinking of doing an apprenticeship, I’d say go for it, for me is has facilitated a major career aspiration I have had, and I don’t think I could get where I am now without the help of the university or my NHS trust."
Read more about Josie's experience
Read more about Josie's experience
Request  your enhanced CV template
*
Indicates a required field
Structure, certificates and assessment
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Year one
Core modules:
Professional nursing practice
-
20 credits
This module will enable students to develop their knowledge and understanding of human anatomy and physiology in the delivery of contemporary evidence-based nursing care.  Students will be introduced to the psychological and sociological aspects of health and wellbeing and will be supported to develop their self-awareness and reflective practice skills.
Evidence based nursing practice -
20 credits
Students will explore how evidence underpins nursing practice for safe and effective patient centred care. They will develop the ability to apply evidence considering the wider implications of life context in promoting health and preventing ill health.
Students will be required to evidence completion of Part 1 MYEPAD to demonstrate achievement of the skills associated with Future nurse: Standards of Proficiency for Registered Nurses and Standards for education and training (NMC 2018).
Complex care in nursing practice -
20 credits
Students will critically discuss and apply the knowledge and skills needed to assess and plan nursing interventions for person centred care. Students will also examine the aetiology and pathophysiology of disease including pharmacological and psychosocial interventions within the context of complex nursing care.
Year two
Core modules:
Leadership for nursing practice (field specific module) -
40 credits
This module will allow students to explore aspects of leading and managing care delivery within inter-professional teams.  Using a problem-based learning approach, students will critically examine near misses, critical incidents, major incidents and serious adverse events in order to learn from them and influence their future practice.
Students will be required to evidence completion of Part 2 MYEPAD to demonstrate achievement of the skills associated with Future nurse: Standards of Proficiency for Registered Nurses and Standards for education and training (NMC 2018).
Innovation and improvement in nursing practice (field specific module) -
40 credits
Students will undertake an extended project which will lead to recommendations and innovation for nursing practice in their chosen field. Students will demonstrate their ability to critically apply the appropriate theoretical and investigative principles to a topic of their choosing.
Transition to autonomous practice(field specific module) -
40 credits
Students will demonstrate their ability to critically evaluate their role in the assessment, interventions, and evaluation of complex care in health and social care settings. Working towards becoming an autonomous practitioner for entry to the professional register.  Students will be required to evidence completion of MYEPAD to demonstrate achievement of the skills associated with Part 3 Future nurse: Standards of proficiency for registered nurses and Standards for education and training (NMC 2018).
Request more information about our apprenticeship programmes
Want to talk to a member of the team about our apprenticeship programmes? Make an enquiry and a member of our team will get in contact with to provide you with more information about our apprenticeships, and how our programmes can up-skill your workforce.
Request more information about apprenticeships
Request more information about apprenticeships
Benefits
So that you are fully prepared for your career, we ensure that your skills and knowledge match current working practices in health and social care. The practical abilities you develop on placement will be underpinned and extended by the knowledge you gain through lectures, tutorials, workshops and simulated practice activities.
We harness latest technology in all aspects of the course. Modules are linked to the University’s Virtual Learning Environment (VLE), so that you have 24-hour access to relevant resources both on and off campus. We also capture ‘live’ lectures via Panopto which you can view at times that suit you via the VLE.
In addition, our students benefit from access to a range online resources such as Clinical Skills Net, an online resource offering video tutorials in essential clinical skills. The anatomy and physiology content of the programme is supported in a similar way through Wiley PLUS.
Who you'll meet
You will be taught by qualified health professionals with extensive experience of nursing and leadership roles. They have proven, sustained track records in higher education teaching, with most holding Fellowships of the Higher Education Academy.
Our staff keep up to date with latest developments in the sector by undertaking continuing professional development as part of their registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council.
How you are assessed
There are a diverse range of authentic assessments within the programme.  Assessments are aligned to module learning outcomes and support students to build academic skill and professional development.  Assessment feedback and feedforward mechanisms encourage dialogue, provide action plans, and utilise academic, student, and practice support staff where required.  This ensures that students are fit for practice, purpose, award, and professional standing on completion of the award.
Each assessment within the programme has the following underpinning characteristics:
Each assessment has value and distinct relevance to professional nursing practice.
They support development and progression through the programme.
Each assessment focuses on supporting students to meet the NMC standards for registration.
They support the application of theory to practice.
The assessment process is transparent, and students receive timely and constructive feedback to support their success.
Assessment of practice learning is recorded in the Practice Assessment Document (MYEPAD), which is designed to support and guide students towards successfully achieving the criteria set out in the Future nurse: Standards of Proficiency for Registered Nurses and Standards for Education and Training (NMC 2018).  The MYEPAD is a regionally validated document developed collaboratively with other local universities.  The University of Derby continues to work in partnership to support a consistent approach to student supervision and assessment.
Entry requirements
Education
GCSE grade C or above (Grade 4-9) in Maths and English (or equivalent) (essential)
Honours degree 2:2 or above (essential)
Experience of education or study within the last five years (desirable).
Work experience
800hrs of work experience in a service user context obtained in the last five years (essential). It is desirable that the experience is in paid employment.
In addition
Interview - information can be requested below
Employers are responsible for ensuring apprentices meet occupational health requirements and have passed appropriate vetting procedures, which include a Disclosure and Barring Service Check and right to work check. This is evidenced through the submission of supplementary evidence as part of the selection process
Applicants must submit an Enhanced CV
using the programme template to evidence how past experiences are relevant to a career in nursing and to evidence 800 hours of work experience.
Request form here
Applicants whose first language is not English must demonstrate IELTS 6.5 overall with no less 6.0 in any element (or equivalent level in OET).
To apply for this apprenticeship, you must currently be in paid full-time employment.
Your employer must cover the costs of the apprenticeship. The employer must confirm they are able to provide the range of placement experiences required for NMC registration.
Important information for applicants
To be considered for an offer to study, the following must be 'evidenced' as part of your initial application submission:
GSCE English language and maths at grade C/4 or above or the equivalent
International applicants can demonstrate their English language from any of the accepted qualifications. Any testing with evidence of attainment needs to be completed prior to the submission of an initial application. If applicants are using a WAEC qualification as certified evidence this must be at a minimum of C4 for English and C6 for Maths
Please note: Applications will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis, and will only be considered where evidence has been provided on completion of the extended CV.   After application submission and providing all entry requirements and initial evidence is satisfactory, suitable candidates will then be required to attend an interview as part of the professional Recognition of Prior Learning requirements of this Nursing and Midwifery Council (UK) approved programme. Non-attendance will result in your application being withdrawn.
Please contact the programme team to discuss if you have any queries about your education/work experience.
It is important to note that apprentices can be either new or existing employees and that the required evidence of merit and potential to complete the programme successfully will be investigated and evidenced during the admissions process
Request: Preregistration MSc Nursing Supplementary information - Enhanced CV template
Fees and funding
Employers
Cost of the apprenticeship will normally be in line with the funding band level 7, but individual agreements will be considered depending on student numbers and the involvement of employers.
Apprentices
Fees will be paid by your employer with government funded support or through the apprenticeship levy.
Additional costs and optional extras
How to apply
Applications to this apprenticeship must be made through the employer.
However, you can find out more from us - please see below for contact information.
If you are an individual who is not yet employed within this sector, you may find the following links useful:
https://www.healthcareers.nhs.uk/explore-roles
https://www.rcn.org.uk/professional-development/your-career
Who will teach you
Lisa Maddox
Programme leader
Lisa Maddox is a lecturer in the BSc Adult Nursing programme, working mainly in the stage 2 team.
View full staff profile
View full staff profile
Contact us
Apprenticeship Hub
Email:
apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk
Phone:
01332 593092
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Supplementary evidence
Applicants are required to submit supplementary evidence as an extended CV to demonstrate how their previous care experience and graduate studies have equipped them to undertake an accelerated programme.  This will be reviewed prior to any offer of an interview.
As a minimum the extended CV must include:
Evidence of practice (minimum 800 hours)
Applicants must provide evidence of health and/or social care experiences within the last 5 years and include references verifying hours completed.
Evidence of theoretical learning (minimum 792 hours)
This must include original transcript of previous academic study, demonstrating 360 credits at level 6 study
Evidence of achievement of standards for pre-registration nursing education commensurate with point of entry of the 2-year MSc Nursing programme (NMC 2018)
Mapping of experience and learning to the identified NMC Platforms.
In preparing the claim, the applicant should demonstrate that the evidence provided is:
Valid - that it matches the learning outcomes against the claim is being made
Sufficient - the amount and level of evidence matches the outcomes against which the claim is being made
Authentic - it relates to the applicants own work and should be able to be verified
Current - within the last 5 years
After application submission and providing all entry requirements and initial evidence is satisfactory, suitable candidates will then be required to attend an interview as part of the professional Recognition of Prior Learning requirements of this Nursing and Midwifery Council (UK) approved programme. Non-submission of a fully completed extended CV and/or non-attendance will result in your application being withdrawn.
Please contact the programme team to discuss if you have any queries about your education/work experience.