Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/registered-nurse-degree-apprenticeship-bsc-online/

Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship BSc (online) - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship BSc (online)
Apply now
Apply now
Apprenticeship Course
Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship BSc (Online)
Apply
Apply
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Benefits
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Next course date
January, September
Duration
3 years
Location
Online
Course description
This programme is for UK-based students who are working in health and are supported by their employer to undertake their nursing qualification
Our nursing programmes are approved against
the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) Future Nurse: Standards of Proficiency for Registered Nurses
meaning that upon successful completion of this programme, you will be eligible to apply for registration with the NMC in your chosen field of practice
Your employer will provide a range of placements in different clinical settings to enable you to gain essential practical experience
You will study flexibly using a variety of tools, formats, and study materials to complete the requirements for NMC registration
During residential weeks, you will benefit from some of the best university facilities of their kind, including clinical suites and our state-of-the-art immersive suits
You will be supported by a highly experienced and enthusiastic teaching team who provide full support to help you achieve your ambitions
Registered Nursing Associates may be eligible to enter the programme at the 18-month point.
For your first step into a rewarding career in nursing, look no further than a Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship; which has a strong track record in providing high quality, innovative nursing education. Through an apprenticeship, employers can grow their own professional staff and help committed staff to develop in their chosen career. This new online route to registration offers a flexible route for employers to support workforce development.
The Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship leads to registration with the
Nursing and Midwifery Council
(NMC), with course fees supported by the employer and apprenticeship funding. Apprentices will be employed full-time for the duration of the programme which cannot be studied without recognised employment as an apprentice.
Choose a career where you can make a difference every day. We will equip you to deliver exceptional care as a confident, capable and compassionate nurse.
This unique 3-year full-time online learning route to achieve your nursing qualification offers a holistic learning experience to enable students to become emotionally resilient and transformational Registered Nurses of the future.
The programme goes beyond the formal framework of compulsory requirements for qualification, by encouraging you to consider the broader perspective of nursing within the context of professional values, nursing leadership, decision-making and teamwork. Students on the programme will develop a strong individual and collective identity as Registered Nurses who demonstrate the core values of the profession and who take pride in what they do. Throughout the course, you will learn to deliver individualised, personalised and person-centred care that is safe and based upon the latest research and evidence.
Nursing is challenging, satisfying and life-changing. This highly respected course represents your first step into a profession that is a privilege to join.
Expertise to inspire and prepare you for your career in nursing
We have a strong track record in providing high-quality and innovative nurse education. We will help you to develop an in-depth understanding of the demands and rewards of the role so that you are fully prepared to work with adult patients who have diverse, acute and chronic conditions.
Because this course is accredited by the Nursing and Midwifery Council, you will be eligible to register and practise as a nurse as soon as you graduate, as long as you meet the NMC's requirements.
Our students are supported by enthusiastic and dedicated academic staff who are immersed in their areas of practice and committed to supporting you at every stage of your studies. All academic staff are NMC registered professionals, and some continue to work in clinical practice alongside their teaching role. The academic team includes renowned professionals whose work features regularly in leading journals and books, and who help to shape national policies.
This course is mapped against the NMC standards and nurse degree apprenticeship standards to ensure that your learning is up-to-date and relevant. Throughout the programme, we respond to national changes such as the latest government policies so course content will be of the moment. Therefore, some of the information about the course may change.
Registered Nursing Associates may join the Direct Entry route
Registered Nursing Associates may be exempt from the first stage of the programme and therefore eligible to join the programme at the 18-month point.
Who is this course for?
For apprentices
Develop in your chosen career whilst still employed
Gain theoretical knowledge and understanding
Study flexibly using a variety of tools, formats and study materials
Develop critical thinking skills
Increase confidence and improve service user experience
For organisations
Support staff to study flexibly and be eligible for NMC registration
Help address record vacancies by growing your own professional staff
Invest in committed staff that are connected to the local area
Improve retention of key staff
Demonstrate a career pathway for all employees
Improve patient and client satisfaction
Structure, certificates and assessment
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
The BSc (Hons) Nursing is made up of nine core 40-credit integrated theory-practice modules, all of which must be completed to total 360 credits.
As you complete the modules, you will develop an in-depth and comprehensive understanding of Nursing together with the principles of nursing across all fields and lifespan.
The modules provide the fundamental knowledge and skills for safe and effective nursing practice where the interests of service users are put first. They provide the foundation for you to develop a compassionate professionalism whereby you are trusted in the care you provide.
Stage one
Introduction to nursing
Credits: 40
Level 4
This module will introduce students to the role of the nurse in contemporary evidence based professional practice. Legal, ethical and professional frameworks which underpin practice will be explore to ensure care delivery is effective safe and patient focused. Students will be supported to develop their communication, self-awareness and reflective practice skills.
Health sciences for nursing practice
Credits: 40
Level 4
Students will develop their knowledge and understanding of human physiology and pharmacology in relation to health and wellbeing over the lifespan. This module will introduce students to the psychological and sociological aspects of health and wellbeing.
Person centred nursing care for health and wellbeing
Credits: 40
Level 4
This module will introduce students to the key concepts for assessing and planning nursing interventions for person-centred care. Students will be required to evidence completion of MYEPAD to demonstrate achievement of the skills associated with Part 1 Future Nurse: Standards of Proficiency for Registered Nurses and Standards for Education and Training (NMC 2018).
Stage two
Research for health and wellbeing
Credits: 40
Level 5
Students will develop their knowledge and understanding of human physiology and pharmacology in relation to health and wellbeing over the lifespan. This module will introduce students to the psychological and sociological aspects of health and wellbeing.
Pharmacological and psychosocial interventions
Credits: 40
Level 5
Students will examine the aetiology and pathophysiology of disease including pharmacological and psychosocial interventions within the context of evidence-based nursing care.
Transition to nursing practice (18-month entrants only)
Credits: 20
Level 5
This module will support students transitioning from the role of Registered Nursing Associate to Student Nurse. Students will be introduced to their chosen field of practice and consider the legal, ethical, and professional frameworks which underpin care.
Developing nursing practice
Credits: 40
Level 5
This module will enable students to apply their developing knowledge and skills needed for person-centred care. Students will be required to evidence completion of MYEPAD to demonstrate achievement of the skills associated with Part 2 Future Nurse: Standards of Proficiency for Registered Nurses and Standards for Education and Training (NMC 2018).
Stage three
Leadership for nursing practice
Credits: 40
Level 6
This module will allow students to explore aspects of leading and managing care delivery within inter-professional teams. Using a problem-based learning approach, students will critically examine near misses, critical incidents, major incidents and serious adverse events in order to learn from them and influence their future practice.
Innovation and improvement in nursing practice
Credits: 40
Level 6
Students will undertake an extended project which will lead to recommendations and innovation for nursing practice in their chosen field. Students will demonstrate their ability to critically apply the appropriate theoretical and investigative principles to a topic of their choosing.
Transition to autonomous practice
Credits: 40
Level 6
Students will demonstrate their ability to critically evaluate their role in the assessment, interventions, and evaluation of complex care in health and social care settings. Working towards becoming an autonomous practitioner for entry to the professional register.  Students will be required to evidence completion of MYEPAD to demonstrate achievement of the skills associated with Part 3 Future Nurse: Standards of Proficiency for Registered Nurses and Standards for Education and Training (NMC 2018).
How you will learn
Flexible online study
Academic study takes place online, allowing you to undertake self-directed study with the flexibility to access your study materials, resources and student support services electronically.
Online learning and teaching involves:
Self-paced online study and research through our easy-to-use virtual learning environment
Live sessions hosted by the module tutor, and recorded to enable them to be watched back at a later date
Pre-recorded videos available to watch at any time
Discussion boards where you can engage with fellow students and tutors, to discuss and debate particular topics and themes, share experiences and talk over aspects of the study materials and unit activities.
Though this programme is also
available to study on campus
,
it is not possible to undertake the programme through a mixed mode of study.
Pace of study
The programme is studied full-time over three years, and modules are taught over three 10-week trimesters per academic year. You will be expected to study 37.5 hours a week, split equally between theory and supernumerary clinical placement.
Annual residential week – access our state-of-the-art facilities
Online study is coupled with an annual residential study skills week at the University of Derby campus, where you will access our specialist facilities:
Our clinical suites are built to professional standards with replica wards, counselling toom and treatment rooms, fully equipped with the latest clinical resources
Our state-of-the-art immersive environments allow you to practice your skills in a realistic setting. These facilities replicate the atmosphere, sights and sounds of, for instance, the inside of an ambulance, a busy A7E ward, or an operating theatre, giving you a greater understanding of clinical decision-making in action.
During the residential study skills weeks, you will take part in clinical simulation scenarios, attend lectures / taught sessions delivered by subject experts and interact with fellow students in our immersive clinical skills suite.
Professional practice placements
In line with the NMC Standards, practice learning makes up 50% of the overall programme. Students are required to complete a minimum of 2,300 hours of practice learning to support the application of theory to practice.
Your employer must be able to provide you with the range of placement experiences required for NMC registration and this must be evidenced within your application.
During the practice placements arranged by your employer, you will apply your learning to your field of practice. Most of your practice learning will take place in a base placement with at least 150 hours a year in a different placement area.
You will be expected to work across the full range of 24-hour care in line with the placement area and NMC requirements.
Practice learning is supported by Practice Supervisors, Practice Assessors and Academic assessors to ensure you receive appropriate support and that the assessment is robust.
Interprofessional learning
Successful multidisciplinary and multiagency working has a significant impact on the quality of services provided and on outcomes for service users.
During each module, you will learn alongside students from other fields of practice supporting sharing of practice, peer support and development of knowledge across all four fields of nursing to enable you to develop the ability to deliver holistic care.
Personal academic tutoring
Your personal academic tutor, who will be a registered nurse,
will work with you to help you get the most out of your time at university. Having someone to talk to about your academic progress, your university experience and your professional aspirations is hugely valuable. We want you to feel challenged in your studies, stretched but confident to achieve your academic and professional goals.
Request more information about our apprenticeship programmes
Want to talk to a member of the team about our apprenticeship programmes? Make an enquiry and a member of our team will get in contact with you to provide you with more information about our apprenticeships, and how our programmes can up-skill your workforce.
Request more information about apprenticeships
Request more information about apprenticeships
Assessment method
There is a diverse range of authentic assessments within the programme. Assessments are aligned to module learning outcomes and support students to build academic skills and professional development.
Assessment feedback and feedforward methods encourage dialogue, provide action plans, and utilise academic, student, and practice support staff where required.  This ensures that students are fit for practice, purpose, award, and professional standing on completion of the award.
Each assessment has the following underpinning characteristics:
Value and distinct relevance to professional nursing practice
They support development and progression through the programme
Supporting students to meet the NMC standards for registration
Support the application of theory to practice
The assessment process is transparent, and students receive timely and constructive feedback to support their success
Assessment of practice learning is recorded in the Practice Assessment Document (MYEPAD and SafeMedicate), which is designed to support and guide students towards successfully achieving the criteria set out in the Future Nurse: Standards of Proficiency for Registered Nurses and Standards for Education and Training (NMC 2018).
Benefits
High quality, innovative nurse education provision
Substantial time spent in placements experiencing other healthcare settings
Excellent clinical skills facilities
Enables registration as a nurse with NMC
Entry requirements
Level 2 English qualification
(GCSE Grade 4-9, GCSE Grade A-C, Level 2 Functional Skills English, Key Skills Level 2 Communication or equivalent); (
essential
)
Level 2 Maths qualification
(GCSE Grade 4-9, GCSE Grade A-C, Level 2 Functional Skills Maths, Key Skills Level 2 Application of Number (Numeracy) or equivalent); (
essentia
l)
112-128 UCAS points
which can be achieved through any level 3 qualifications including Access to Higher Education or Access to Nursing (60 credits: 45 at level 3 with a minimum of Dist: 15 Merit: 24 Pass: 6), A Levels, T Levels or BTEC (DDM-DMM)
Health or care experience
to demonstrate an insight into the professional values and behaviours associated with health and care environments (
desirable
)
Employers are responsible for ensuring apprentices meet
occupational health requirements
and have passed appropriate vetting procedures
, which include a Disclosure and Barring Service Check and right to work check. This is evidenced through the submission of supplementary evidence as part of the selection process
Apprentices will have been identified by the organisation as being able to succeed on the programme, and employers may set additional entry requirements as part of the selection process prior to assessment for entry by the University
Applicants whose first language is not English must demonstrate IELTS 6.5 overall with no less 6.0 in any element (or equivalent level in OET)
The employer must confirm they are able to provide the range of placement experiences required for NMC registration.
It is important to note that apprentices can be either new or existing employees and that the required evidence of merit and potential to complete the programme successfully will be investigated and evidenced during the admissions process.
Individual employers will also set their own selection criteria and typical entry requirements and we will work with them concerning entry.
To apply for this apprenticeship you must currently be in paid employment of at least 37.5 hours per week. Your employer must cover the costs of the apprenticeship.
Fees and funding
Employers
Cost of the apprenticeship will normally be in line with the funding band of £26,000. For Registered Nursing Associates Direct Entry students, the cost will be £15,600.
Apprentices
Fees will be paid by your employer with government-funded support or through the apprenticeship levy.
How to apply
Applications to this apprenticeship will need to be made through the employer.
However, you can find out more from us - please see below for contact information.
If you are an individual who is not yet employed within this sector, you may find the following links useful:
Career Finder
Step into the NHS
Empower your workforce with block bookings
Take advantage of a short courses block booking to upskill your employees. Our short courses run on-campus and online and include new legislation and other up-to-the-minute issues. Get in touch today and we will tailor a package to meet the needs of your business.
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Who will teach you
Helen  Clarke
Programme leader
Helen Clarke is a senior lecture for BSc (Hons) Mental Health Nursing. She is the academic lead for the BSc Mental health Nursing apprenticeships. Helen is part of the stage three team and module leads the leadership from transition to the registration module.
View full staff profile
View full staff profile
Contact us
Apprenticeship Hub
Email:
apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk
Phone:
01332 593092
Other courses you might like
Nursing Associate
Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship MSc
MSc Advanced Clinical Practitioner (ACP) Apprenticeship