Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/relationships-informed-by-cognitive-behavioural-therapy/

Relationships informed by Cognitive Behavioural Therapy - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Relationships informed by Cognitive Behavioural Therapy
Apply now
Apply now
Professional Course
Relationships informed by Cognitive Behavioural Therapy
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
How to apply
Module details
Module code
6CL514
Module level
Level 6
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
September, January, May
Duration
10 weeks
Location
Derby Campus
Module description
About this module
In studying this module you will learn some important components of what it is to be a practitioner who can integrate knowledge and skills from Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) approaches into your current practice.  In short, you are becoming a CBT informed worker who can make safe decisions about when to work using knowledge and skills from CBT and when not to.
Who is this course for
This module is for health and social care practitioners whom wish to further inform their therapeutic practice within cognitive behavioural theory. Practitioners can be any area of practice where individuals may experience some emotional issues or difficulties in their mental wellbeing.
Course team
Vicky Cockerill
Danielle Mills
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Evaluate your participation in self-development and peer supervision activities.
Identify how the learned skills and insights from CBT approaches can be integrated safely within your current practice.
Critically analyse the use of relational and interviewing skills in work with others that is informed by CBT approaches.
Entry requirements
Evidence of study at level 5
Working within a health and social care setting.
You will need:
A University Diploma in Counselling or an equivalent qualification
The ability to work independently (evidenced through a reference letter from a professional person known to you regarding your suitability for this programme).
To complete an online application form with suitable references.
If English is not your first language you will need an English language qualification. For this course you will need at least one of the following:
IELTS 6.0
TOEFL 550 (paper based) 213 (computer based) or 80 (internet based)
Pearson Test of Academic English: 51
Cambridge Advanced Certificate: Pass
London Tests of English: we accept level 4 for undergraduate courses
International GCE O Level English Language: Grade C
International GCSE English/English as a Second Language: Grade C
How to apply
Level 6
LBR applications
If you are applying for an LBR funded place, please Apply directly to the University.
Find out more about LBR and whether you are eligible for an LBR Level 6 course
Apply directly to the University
Self-funded applications
If you are financing your study yourself, please contact Admissions on
01332 591167
or email
askadmissions@derby.ac.uk
to secure your place
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.