Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/research-methods/

Research Methods - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Research Methods
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Research Methods
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
Module details
Module code
7OT513
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
September, January, April
Duration
3 months
Location
Distance learning
Module description
About this module
The module covers research design including quantitative and qualitative methods and data analysis, ethical considerations, practical factors which may impact on the conduct of research and the importance of appropriate dissemination of research findings.
This module is distance learning, delivered online and equates to 200 hours of study. Students will be supported by a module tutor via phone, skype and/or email.
Who is this course for
All health professionals, All health and social care professionals, nursing and paramedic, occupational therapy, pharmacists, ultrasonography.
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Critically analyse research literature and through this identify a topic which could be researched.
Critically evaluate the relevance of different research designs, methods and data analysis methods for this chosen topic.
Critically consider the impact of ethical and practical factors affecting the conduct of research in the practice situation on this chosen topic.
Entry requirements
Professional registration in a health and social care role.
Fees and funding
If you are funding your own study, the module price will be confirmed shortly.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.