Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/teacher-training-courses/pgce-secondary-school-based/

PGCE Secondary (Provider-Led, School-based) with Qualified Teacher Status - Teacher Training - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Teacher Training
PGCE Secondary (Provider-Led, School-based) with Qualified Teacher Status
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Secondary (Provider-Led, School-based) with Qualified Teacher Status
PGCE
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year
UK fee
£9.250 for the full course*
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Put your career plans on a firm footing – with a PGCE, recommendation for Qualified Teacher Status and 60 credits at masters level
Spend most of the year on placement, learning what it takes to become a great teacher
Benefit from our strong network of Delivery Partners so that you gain varied, challenging and effective practical experience
Develop your subject specialism and your understanding of teaching children from wide-ranging backgrounds
Be inspired by our team of dedicated, friendly tutors who are renowned internationally for high quality teaching and research
Ofsted
rating of 'Outstanding' for Primary, Secondary and Post-14 Further Education and Skills
Ofsted 2023/24
100
%
overall satisfaction
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
Our Provider-led, School-based route provides the ideal combination of highly regarded qualifications and hands-on experience, giving you a strong career advantage.
Fully prepared for a teaching role
School-based courses have high levels of employment and student satisfaction. You will be recruited as a trainee and based mainly in one of our delivery partner schools, so you will become a valuable part of a school team from the start.
With intensive support in the classroom and the guidance of University experts, you will be fully prepared for the practical demands of secondary teaching in your chosen subject specialism.
As part of the course, you will undertake two assessed teaching placements to broaden your experience. You will be supported throughout by expert colleagues including our trained school mentors, subject specialist tutors.
You will also spend time at the University to help put your school experience in the context of educational policy, principles and evidence-based practice.
An inspiring learning experience
With a rich heritage in teacher training dating back over 150 years, we have a strong reputation for nurturing successful, confident and forward-thinking teachers.
The power of partnerships
As one of the major Initial Teacher Education providers in the East Midlands, we have longstanding partnerships with more than 400 schools across the region, including rural, multi-cultural and inner city schools.
For the School-based course, we work collaboratively with Delivery Partners who are committed to providing you with a high-quality, challenging and exciting training experience.
Broaden your perspectives
Alongside your main teaching placements, you will have the chance to visit other schools and to work with children from different backgrounds.
You will also focus on your subject specialism to improve your practice and will study school-related issues at masters level.
Relevant, up to date and challenging
At a time when rapid policy shifts are transforming the educational landscape, we will help you to meet the challenge of change in the modern classroom. Ours is an intellectually stimulating course which will keep you up to date with all the latest developments, including the Core Content Framework.
You will be taught by a highly competent and qualified team of tutors, including published authors and influential researchers whose work is helping to shape the future of the profession.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You’ll study modules such as:
What is effective learning?
How do we all learn, what is our role?
How do we plan for and evidence learning?
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Whilst you will spend most of your time learning how to teach in schools through our network of Delivery Partners, you will also benefit from wider perspectives about teaching, learning and the educational landscape here at the University. Working in our excellent facilities, with University and other experts in the wider educational field, you will develop a deeper and more critical understanding of what it takes to become a highly effective teacher.
How you're assessed
You will complete two assessed teaching placements, which will provide you with the challenging and exciting experience you need. Throughout these placements you will be given weekly feedback on your progress. You will also have the opportunity to reflect and discuss your developing knowledge of teaching your subject. The academic side of the programme is assessed through three level 7 assignments which align with your practice in school and allow you to match theory with practice.
Who will teach you
Grace Hoskins
Programme Leader
Grace Hoskins
Grace is a senior lecturer in Initial Teacher Education, Programme Leader for PGCE SCITT non QTS and Programme Leader for Provider-Led, School-Based Secondary PGCE with QTS
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You will need an undergraduate honours degree (preferably 2:2) or equivalent, plus GCSE grade 4 or above in English Language and Maths. You must be able to demonstrate an appropriate level of subject knowledge in your chosen subject curriculum specialism.
Contact
SchoolbasedITTE@derby.ac.uk
for further guidance
A Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check is required at the point of accepting a place at the University. The
Disclosure and Barring Service
was established when the Criminal Records Bureau (CRB) and Independent Safeguarding Authority (ISA) merged in 2012 and will now provide the criminal records checking service for this course.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9.250 for the full course*
N/A
International
N/A
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 for the full course*
N/A
International
N/A
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Range of in class visiting/expert speakers to enhance module content e.g. Homophobic bullying input, Behaviour Management, Honour Based Violence, PSHE
Access to Derby Open Centre
Interview preparation/supporting job applications - Local Head teachers and the unions
Professionalism input – Unions (free)
Delivery Partner hub training sessions
Access to Derby Library Services
Subject Specialist tutor
Trained mentor on placements
Two main placements in two different schools
DBS
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
You may choose to buy textbooks, journals, data sticks, stationery, text books
Replacement DBS check if lost, approx. cost £50
Travel to/parking at settings hosting activities
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
You must apply for this course through the Department for Education. You can apply for entry on
GOV.UK
.
Your application will be processed by the Delivery Partner you've chosen to study at. Our partners are:
CAT Institute of Education (CAT IoE)
Forest Way Alliance
Landau Forte Teacher Training
Loughborough Learning Alliance
For admissions enquiries, please contact
schoolbasedITTE@derby.ac.uk
or call us on
+44 (0)1332 591608
.
Careers
There are few professions as important and satisfying as teaching. Successful completion of this course gives you the ideal springboard into a worthwhile career: a PGCE, recommendation for Qualified Teacher Status, 60 credits at masters level and substantial practical experience.
The Provider-led, School-based route is a popular choice for students who would like to secure a role in the network of schools where they train and we pride ourselves on producing highly employable graduates.
In a profession with lots of opportunities for career progression, we also give you a stepping stone towards a masters degree. With your 60 credits at masters level, you can ‘fast track’ to stage two of a masters degree and accelerate your professional development. Our acclaimed
MA Education
is an excellent option, especially if you have your sights set on more senior roles such as deputy/head of department, deputy/head of year, or senior leadership.
As an early career teacher, you can also benefit from the University’s continuing support as you take your career forward. We offer a range of resources, subject updates, events, conferences and development opportunities to ease your transition into professional practice.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Learn more about
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion at the University of Derby