Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/apprenticeships/senior-leader-apprenticeship/

Senior Leader Apprenticeship - Apprenticeships courses - University of Derby
Study
Apprenticeships courses
Senior Leader Apprenticeship
Apply now
Apply now
Apprenticeship Course
Senior Leader Apprenticeship with PG Diploma
Apply
Apply
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Benefits
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Course level
Level 7
Next course date
September
Duration
24 months
Delivery
Blended learning
Lecture/workshop days - dates/times
Face-to-face sessions will be delivered in two-day blocks.
Course description
This Level 7 apprenticeship offers apprentices an in-depth personal and professional development programme designed to transform them into confident and informed business leaders. Apprentices will gain a broad knowledge of business management, covering topics such as organisational strategy, financial performance, managing operations and delivering customer value, with the option to progress from the Postgraduate Diploma to our MBA.
On successful completion of the programme, apprentices will be awarded an apprenticeship certificate from the IFA (at pass, merit or distinction) subject to their successful completion of the End Point Assessment (EPA).  Additionally, apprentices may be eligible for Fellowship of the CMI or ILM.
In addition, apprentices have the opportunity to achieve a Post Graduate Diploma in Management (at pass, merit or distinction), derived from the first 2 stages of the University of Derby MBA Professional programme.
Key Characteristics:
Learning takes place both at the university and in the workplace and uses real work based activities to inform and evidence that learning has taken place
In order to meet nationally set criteria a minimum of 20% of the learning for apprentice learners will take place off the job, for example in lectures, seminars, job shadowing and industrial visits
Develops a strategic, holistic and integrated perspective of business, organisations and management
Assessment strategies allow direct application of learnt knowledge to the work place.
Structure, certificates and assessment
The programme curriculum and structure is designed to enable learners to undertake a level 7 Senior Leader apprenticeship that includes the opportunity to achieve an PG Diploma (non-mandatory) in Management (derived from the MBA Professional ). All apprentices will undertake the learning activities associated with the modules for the PG Diploma.
Prior to commencing the formal programme delivery, all apprenticeship learners will undertake an initial assessment (see admissions section), including a skills scan, this will highlight areas of experience and potential areas for development. The information from the skills scan will inform the Individual Learning Plan for each learner and contribute to the portfolio building.
An induction programme will be undertaken by all apprentices, which will include preparation for study at L7.  This is of particular importance given that it is anticipated that some apprentices are likely to have been out of formal education for a time, given their employment status and position. Induction activities will also include the processes, procedures and structure of the apprenticeship standard.
What you will study
The below modules are all related to the apprenticeship course.
Postgraduate Certficate
Understanding HRM
Information Systems for Sustaining Competitive Advantage
Introduction to Business Research Methods and Data Analysis
The Sustainable Global Business Environment
Marketing in Organisations
Governance and Risk
Postgraduate Diploma
Improving Supply Chain and Logistics Operations
Strategic and Financial Performance Management
Critical Perspectives in Strategic Leadership and Management
Apprentices will be awarded the PG Diploma after successful completion of the illustrated modules (total 120 Credits), there is a step off award if an apprentice decides not to complete the full programme:
The employer must be content that the apprentice is working at or above the level of the occupational standard
Achievement of English and Maths at level 2 or higher
Development and sign off by the EPAO of the strategic business proposal title and scope
Hold a portfolio to evidence achievement of KSB’s
To successfully complete the apprenticeship,  apprentices must successfully complete the End Point Assessment (EPA). Prior to undertaking the EPA apprentices must pass through the EPA Gateway as specified in the apprenticeship standard.
From business owner to senior leader
Owen has always been motivated to improve and grow his own professional leadership development. When he came across the Senior Leader Degree Apprenticeship, he knew it had to grab the opportunity.
Find out more about Owen's apprenticeship journey
Find out more about Owen's apprenticeship journey
Request more information about our apprenticeship programmes
Want to talk to a member of the team about our apprenticeship programmes? Make an enquiry and a member of our team will get in contact with to provide you with more information about our apprenticeships, and how our programmes can up-skill your workforce.
Request more information about apprenticeships
Request more information about apprenticeships
Benefits
Benefits to employers
Your apprentices will:
gain contemporary subject knowledge in strategic management and leadership
be able to contribute to the business before they graduate, thanks to work-related tasks and projects
develop important capabilities that all employers demand from their leaders
critical analysis and the confidence to challenge existing ways of doing things
strong leadership through change and innovation
a thorough understanding of Corporate Social Responsibility, governance and regulatory compliance
the ability to engage employees, forge collaborative relationships and develop people.
Entry requirements
Employment requirements
You must currently be in paid employment of at least 30 hours per week and your employer must cover the costs of the apprenticeship.
Academic requirements
Employers usually set their own selection criteria and entry requirements and we can work with them on this. However, typically an applicant for Senior Leader might be expected to have a recognised bachelors-level degree - such as a BA, BSc or BEng - or the equivalent, plus management experience.
Fees and funding
The additional fee to top up to the MBA Professional qualification will be funded separately by either the employer or apprentice
More information for employers
The cost of this apprenticeship is £14,000, but we will consider individual agreements, depending on student numbers and your involvement - If you pay into the Apprenticeship Levy, this funding will be used.
Generous government subsidies are also available that reduce the fees for SME's to under £800!
How to apply
Apprentices will need to apply through their employer. Employers can find out more by contacting the Apprenticeships Hub - please see below for contact information.
Contact us
Apprenticeship Hub
Email:
apprenticeships@derby.ac.uk
Phone:
01332 593092
Other courses you might like
Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship
Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship (Top-Up)
Project Manager Degree Apprenticeship