Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/social-sciences-courses/sociology-ba-hons/

Sociology BA (Hons)  - Social Sciences - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Social Sciences
Sociology BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Sociology
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years ,  Part-time: Up to 6 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
96
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
L300
Start date
September
Location
One Friar Gate Square, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
Build your own study pathway to match your career aspirations, focusing on themes like crime and justice, youth cultures, politics and social justice, or security and terrorism – or a combination of these
Work placement modules and inspirational fieldtrips will boost your employability: studying Sociology opens up exciting career opportunities in many different sectors
This degree offers fascinating global insights with the chance to spend a semester at Charles University in Prague and to undertake a final-year study trip
We will challenge your thinking about subjects such as race and ethnicity, gender and sexuality, class, the cult of celebrity and the spread of conspiracy theories
Real-world research projects enable you to translate theory into practice, supported by our enthusiastic and supportive teaching team
Sociology course video
Dr Andrew Fergus Wilson, Senior Lecturer in Sociology, talks about what our Sociology degree and how students will benefit from studying this course.
View Sociology video transcript
Top
15
for graduate prospects - Sociology subject area
Times and Sunday Times University Good University Guide 2025
“I loved the idea that I could get a degree that covers many areas of interest and not restrict me to one subject. It has opened up so many opportunities for me; I have been to Berlin and Geneva as well as having chances to work with valuable companies and organisations which have cemented my future career decisions”. Chloe Bradbury, BA (Hons) Sociology.
Would you like to explore how the modern world has developed, where it’s going, and ways to bring about change for the better?  While we all have our own ideas about society, our BA (Hons) Sociology helps you build a more accurate picture of the dramatic and diverse changes influencing our lives today.
With flexibility and choice at its core, this degree is structured around the key avenues of crime and justice, youth cultures, politics and social justice, and security and terrorism. It means you can choose to focus on the combination of topics which match your personal interests and career aspirations.
We encourage you to think critically and ethically about social trends, developments and controversies. You will find yourself discussing highly topical issues such as social inequality, race and ethnicity, gender and sexuality, globalisation, the impact of the digital era, the sociology of childhood and youth, the cult of celebrity, social movements and political engagement, marginal beliefs and the influence of conspiracy theories.
The degree is designed to deliver an engaging and enjoyable learning experience for all students from the outset – for those progressing directly from A-level Sociology and for those who bring other skills, knowledge and experiences to their studies.
Hands-on learning
At the end of your second year, there is an option for you to take a year placement in industry, in an occupation of your choice. Our Sociology in the World module in your third year also provides you with an opportunity to underake a placement alongside your studies.
Fieldtrips also feature in a number of modules so that you can see how institutions and organisations work ‘on the ground’, developing observational research skills to use in your own projects.
Expert teaching
The BA (Hons) Sociology is taught by a team which includes experienced researchers whose work is shedding new light on some of the most pressing issues facing our society.
They are recognised for their expertise in research areas such as social policy, childhood and war, extremism and counter terrorism, conspiracy theory, humour and society, politics and social movements, Marxism and social theory. They regularly publish their research findings, and deliver conference papers internationally.
As a Sociology student, you can take part in regular guest lectures and departmental research seminars delivered by leading professionals and eminent academics from other institutions.
Real-world research
We give you a thorough grounding in research methods, fieldwork, data collection and the analysis of statistics. Through your independent study module, you will have the chance to conduct in-depth research into the sociological themes that have most captured your interest.
By the end of your degree, you will have developed skills in applying research findings to practical uses, together with the ability to analyse arguments and the confidence to justify your opinions.
Study overseas
The focus of the BA (Hons) Sociology is international in scope and you will have every opportunity to look at the key sociological questions facing communities worldwide. This includes the chance to challenge your perspectives by studying overseas.
We offer you the opportunity to spend a semester in the lively Czech capital of Prague as part of our partnership with Charles University. You may also have opportunities to go on field trips to bring your learning to life. Such experiences make an impressive addition to your CV, showcasing your resourcefulness, confidence and willingness to embrace global outlooks.
The Gateway to Your Legal Career
Our modern, iconic building offers state-of-the-art facilities like a replica Crown Court and Custody Suite. Just a short walk from the city centre, One Friar Gate Square is designed to elevate your academic journey.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
As a BA (Hons) Sociology student, you’ll learn through:
lectures
seminars
multimedia presentations
online collaboration
guest lectures
class debates
We are determined to keep things fresh and interesting, and involve projects that include the close reading of music videos, the design of your own conspiracy theory, the production of wikis and an extended final year piece of research in which you showcase your sociological interest in a topic of your choice.
How you are assessed
You will be assessed through a broad range of methods which allows you to demonstrate your individual strengths and abilities. These include:
essays
case studies
project work
group work presentations
online discussions
Who you’ll meet
We pride ourselves on being approachable, welcoming and supportive. A personal tutor will help and advise you throughout your degree, providing an exceptional level of support which has been commended by external examiners.
The teaching team is made up of specialists with expertise in a wide range of modern social issues including economic inequalities, religion, the family, culture, gender, media, crime, politics, ethnicity, terrorism, childhood, health, social policy, extremism and alternative beliefs.
They include:
Dr Helen Brocklehurst
- Programme Leader Senior Lecturer in Sociology
Dr Phil Burton-Cartledge
- Lecturer in Sociology
Dr Sung-Hee Lee
- Lecturer in Sociology
Dr
Andrew Wilson
- Senior Lecturer in Sociology and Criminology
Dr Rachel Rafferty
- Lecturer in Sociology
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Helen Brocklehurst
Programme Leader
Dr Helen Brocklehurst
Helen Brocklehurst lectures in Social Science and is Programme Leader for Joint Honours Politics. She teaches modules at masters and undergraduate level which also draw upon her research interests in security, conflict and terrori...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
96
A Level
CCC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
MMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Stage appropriate study skills textbook each year
Occasional field trips around Derby
A study trip may be offered if applicable and appropriate
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Costs associated with travel to and from a year in industry and/or a third year work placement.
Optional costs not included in your fees
Students recommended to purchase textbook 'Making Sense of Society'
Travel to optional 3rd year placement - organised by the student, mostly in the local area.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Because the BA (Hons) Sociology delivers such a broad spectrum of skills and insights, it is no surprise to find our graduates excelling in a wide variety of careers where critical thinking, analytical know-how and research abilities are valued.
Our graduates have used their degree to become teachers, lecturers, social workers, probation officers, civil servants, social researchers, business owners, marketeers, counsellors, charity workers, and community officers – to name but a few roles. They have also found work in retail management, public relations, banking, welfare advice, accountancy and systems analysis.
A growing number of our graduates secure competitively funded places on postgraduate courses too, especially in the fields of social work and teaching.
Further study
You could consider taking your studies to the next level, and if you have a particular interest in research, our
MRes Social Sciences and Humanities
enables you to undertake an original research project in a specialist area of your choice.
As a graduate of the University of Derby, you can benefit from a
25% Alumni discount
on your postgraduate course fees. Terms and conditions apply
“I have been able to immerse myself into a world of research and study in areas that I am passionate about. I really respect every academic who has taught me. They are very approachable and have a great sense of humor which is so important when doing a course as intense as a Masters.” Danielle Roe, MA Social and Political Studies.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
International Relations and Diplomacy (with optional year in Hague) BA (Hons)
Public History and Heritage MA