Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/public-health-social-care-courses/social-work-ma/

Social Work MA - Public Health and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Public Health and Social Care
Social Work MA
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Social Work
MA
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 2 years
UK fee
£8,100 per year
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 per year
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Gain experience in work placements where you can put theory into practice
Study a course approved by Social Work England
Apply for a bursary
from the Department of Health and you may be eligible for funding towards your tuition fees and work placement travel expenses.
Partnerships with people
Social workers form partnerships with people, helping them to assess and interpret the problems they face, and support them in finding solutions. This course will provide you with the skills and theories that will enable you to work as a qualified social worker in a range of settings. A career in social work is very challenging, but equally rewarding, as you get the opportunity to help make a difference in someone's life.
Engaging placements
During this course, you'll spend 170 days in work placements where you can apply the theory you learn into practice. You'll have 80 days in practice during stage one, and 90 days during stage two.
We have great links with our partners in the local and surrounding areas, so we can provide you with the effective and practical experience you'll need.
We’re proud to say that our courses are closely mapped against the health and social care sector. This ensures that our curriculum is up-to-date, providing you with the assurance that your learning is current and relevant. This does mean that we do have to respond to national changes, such as government policy. As a result, some of the information about our courses may change. Please check the website for the latest information.
Placement hours are subject to change.
How Shannon found her calling at University
Shannon found studying at the University of Derby to be life-changing and has set up a great foundation to progress her career.
Read Shannon's story here
Read Shannon's story here
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
Stage one
Your first year will give you the opportunity to develop core skills and knowledge in the following modules:
Preparation for Practice Learning
Contemporary Issues in Social Work
Social Work Law
Practice Learning One (placement)
Stage two
In your second year, you'll build on the knowledge and skills acquired in year one, and will continue to develop your practical and reflective skills in a 90-day placement. You will then engage in an independent research project which will encourage you to apply theoretical and empirical knowledge to research and practice.
Modules undertaken in year two are as follows:
Safeguarding Adults
Protecting and Safeguarding Children and Young People
Independent Study
Practice Learning Two (placement)
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Our teaching team includes several qualified social workers with many years of experience working in the sector. Some of the classroom-based activities include lectures, small group work, case discussions and debates. During this course, you’ll spend 170 days in work placements where the theory you have learnt can be put into practice. All placements are allocated for you and will give you a broad range of experience.
You'll be taught by an experienced team which includes:
Catherine John-Baptiste
(Programme Leader and Admissions Tutor)
Michael Balkow
Tonimarie Benaton
Jennifer Brown
Joanne Smith
Vita Snowden
Cynthia Tuuli
How you'll be assessed
Our teaching team uses a range of interesting assessment techniques to provide you with appropriate challenges and assess your development. These include written assignments, presentations, role play and oral examinations.
Entry requirements
You'll need:
A minimum 2:1 honours degree (except in exceptional circumstances) or international equivalent
GCSE grade C or above in English and maths or certificated equivalences, regardless of previous educational qualifications
Completion of a written test, regardless of previous qualification or educational background
Non-UK applicants should achieve a minimum score of 7.0 overall in the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) assessment (or an equivalent assessment) with a minimum of 6.5 in each skills area. Non-UK applicants for September 2023 should submit a final certificate to evidence the required level 2 qualifications are held and not being worked towards. This can be as IELTS with an overall score of 7.0 and a minimum of 6.5 in each skills area and minimum of C4 for English and C6 for Maths in the WAEC qualification. If these qualifications are not held and evidence provided, applications will be refused
International applicants can demonstrate their English language from any of the accepted qualifications or by taking the
Derby English Language Test
(any testing with evidence of attainment needs to be completed prior to the submission of an initial application). If applicants are using a WAEC qualification as certified evidence this must be at a minimum of C4 for English and C6 for Maths
To be considered for interview your Personal Statement must evidence the following:
An understanding of the roles and responsibilities of UK based social workers
Relevant social care/work experience (paid or unpaid).* You need to state how this relates to social work.  You may want to refer to Social Work England/BASW
Professional Capabilities Framework domains
to do this.
The length of time you have spent gaining this experience and how it makes you suitable for undertaking the social work course at this time.
Applications that do not provide the above at the time of application may be rejected. Re-submission of applications will not be accepted if an unsuccessful application has already been submitted in the same academic year
To undergo a health check and a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check. The health check determines your fitness for practice
Confirm prior to interview/offer decision making that you can use basic IT facilities, including word processing, internet browsing and use of email
Accreditation of prior learning will not be considered for this course
*Experience can take the form of voluntary or paid work in which you are able to demonstrate interaction with children and adults in a range of diverse settings.  For example, this could be acting as a peer mentor, working within a nursery setting, having caring responsibilities for a sibling or parent, and understanding and applying safeguarding measures or working in a care home and supporting residents with welfare needs.
Interview information
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£8,100 per year
N/A
International
£14,900 per year
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
Additional costs and optional extras
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
Any postgraduate social work bursaries awarded to the University of Derby (by NHSBSA) will be allocated according to the following criteria: performance from the admission process: Stage 1 written test and the Stage 2 interview. These are both completed during the admissions process.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
DBS check
Hepatitis B vaccination
Optional costs not included in your fees
Textbooks to supplement anything available through the library
Crime youth certificate
British Association of Social Workers (BASW) optional membership, please see BASW website for their current membership rates
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
This course has now closed for September 2024 entry. Applications can be made for September 2025 entry.
Careers
There's a growing demand for qualified social workers who can work in a variety of fields, and this course prepares you for that. You could work with issues such as child protection, vulnerable adults, mental health, disability, older adults and youth justice. These may exist in a variety of settings such as hospitals, day centres, area offices, residential centres, voluntary sectors and schools.
Once you are a qualified social worker, you'll be expected to continue your professional development so you can keep up-to-date with current trends in the sector and keep your skills updated.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Catherine John-Baptiste (Programme Leader)
C.John-Baptiste@derby.ac.uk
01332 594145
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Other courses you might like
Applied Social Work BA (Hons)