Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/entertainment-engineering-courses/sound-light-and-live-event-technology-bsc-hons-foundation/

Sound, Light and Live Event Engineering with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)  - Entertainment Engineering - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Entertainment Engineering
Sound, Light and Live Event Engineering with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Sound, Light and Live Event Engineering with Foundation Year
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 Years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
HJ3X
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
One of the leading courses of its kind in the country, this degree prepares you for a technical career in the exciting world of live events. With the technology involved becoming ever more sophisticated, there is an urgent demand for more skilled engineers and technicians in the industry. At Derby we have been teaching Entertainment Engineering for 25 years and our graduates are working across the industry and around the world at the highest levels. You will gain real-world experience of mounting live events on this highly practical course, guided by a team of experienced professionals.
Work in a challenging, stimulating and creative learning environment – harnessing world-class equipment in our
dedicated facilities
Learn from inspirational tutors who have vast experience in the industry and are experts in their fields
Plan and deliver real live events as part of your studies, from festivals to fashion shows
Take the chance to go on an optional industrial year to strengthen your practical skills further still
Enjoy collaborative projects, working closely with other students specialising in subjects such as music technology, music, electronics and theatre
Follow in the footsteps of our high-achieving graduates who have gone on to work internationally on everything from James Bond film premières to star-studded concerts
Find out more about the exciting projects being undertaken by staff and students in our
Entertainment Engineering specialist subject group
.
Top
20
for satisfaction with teaching
Electronic and Electrical Engineering subject area, The Guardian University Guide 2025
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
This degree covers a broad range of subjects – from lighting technology, audio engineering, video systems, live streaming, power distribution and rigging to electronics, computer networks, acoustics, computer-aided design and simulation.
You will learn both the theory and practice relating to the underlying technologies and will develop hands-on skills by planning and delivering real live events.
Making Connections
Dan began working behind the scenes on live events, such as music concerts, when he was still at school. His initial aim was to get a graduate job within the live event industry - and he's done just that.
Read Dan's story
Read Dan's story
Industry links
Our BSc (Hons) Sound, Light and Live Event Engineering is an engineering-centred but practical-based course for anyone keen to embark on a career in the live events industry. It is also ideal for professionals who have experience in the sector but want a deeper understanding of the theory, along with a recognised qualification.
The degree is built on close links with industry through ongoing engagement with graduates who have taken up professional roles, as well as our many industry contacts . You’ll benefit from regular guest speakers, from Sound Engineers to Tour Managers, and will have the opportunity to go on field trips to get real-life experience. We work closely with companies such as Solotech, d&b audiotechnik, Disney, Chauvet, Meyer Sound, Alton Towers, and many more.
You’ll plan and deliver actual live events throughout your degree. Previous events have included Green Man in Wales, YNot festival, WFR Central Electronic Music Festival and Back 2 festival. You will also get the chance to work on other types of events such as fashion shows, charity events, awards ceremonies, album launches and corporate events.
Our close ties with
Derby Theatre
gives you the opportunity to learn and work in a professional theatre building, if you wish.
You’ll graduate with multi-disciplinary skills, including technology, design, project management, manufacturing, environmental and health and safety knowledge, which will open the door to a wide range of job opportunities, in and out of the industry.
View Sound, Light and Live Event Engineering video transcript
The ideal learning environment
As this is an engineering course, you will study 'how it works' – learning about the underlying technology and electronics in our electronics and computing laboratories.
You will also learn ‘how to work it’ - developing professional skills in lighting design, sound engineering, video and broadcast production, and event management, with practice in our dedicated production spaces and in venues around the city and beyond.
You'll get to grips with the latest technology, thanks to our links with the leading manufacturers and production companies. A small selection of our industry-standard equipment includes:
Sound
:  Allen & Heath dLive systems, DiGiCo SD series, Yamaha digital desks,  d&b audiotechnik Y series system with B-subs and a full Max wedge monitor system.
Lighting
: Lighting consoles from Avolites, Grand MA, ETC, and Chamsys and dozens of moving lights and LED fixtures. We also have an entertainment display Laser system.
Video:
270 LED video wall panels, projectors, and video mixers from Roland and Blackmagic Design.
Rigging
: Flown and ground support truss systems from Total Fabrications, Litec, and Prolyte. Motors from Columbus McKinnon.
Software:
EASE (Enhanced Acoustic Simulator for Engineers), WYSIWYG and Capture lighting simulation systems, Resolume video software, AutoCAD design software, as well as standard free industry software such as Avolites Titan, Chamsys and d&b Array Calc.
Our extensive equipment is housed in the following facilities:
Hemi-Anechoic Chamber
: Our hemi-anechoic chamber is a specialist acoustic environment. The room has ‘dead sound’, there are no echoes or acoustic reflections which makes the space excellent for acoustic experimentation. The chamber has dedicated test equipment including a dummy torso used for testing. Unlike many institutions that reserve such facilities for postgraduate students, our students will work in the 'chamber' from Foundation year onwards.
Auditorium 3
: The main practical teaching space for students on the degree. The room includes 12 1-Tonne rigging points in the 10-metre-high roof (accessed by our Genie scissor lift) and 3-phase power. In the last few years, over £200,000 has been spent on new sound, lighting, and video equipment. You’ll have numerous hands-on practicals here where you’ll design the rig and make everything work.
Entertainment Technology Lab
: An experimental lab with some permanently installed tests. You’ll also be able to programme and prepare shows in here using a small loudspeakers system, digital mixing console, small lighting rig and lighting desk.
Multi-Channel Sound Lab
: The lab is a Dante audio equipped room containing 32 loudspeakers used for investigating immersive audio applications. You’ll test surround sound decoders and create immersive auditory displays. The equipment is run through software created at the University.
Sound Technology Lab
: This lab is used for small scale acoustic testing and includes a small anechoic chamber and a vintage hearing test booth. There’s also a selection of loudspeakers in different states of deconstruction. The room includes a digital sound desk, and technical sessions in here are where you’ll judge the performance characteristics of equipment.
You’ll also have access to our Makerspace – a workshop where you can work on any project and turn your ideas into a prototype. Equipment includes a laser cutter, 3D printers, soldering irons and CNC machines. It’s a fantastic place to collaborate with other students across the University. There are also wood and metal working workshops and a Digital Media (Print) hub onsite, as well as the specialist electronics and computing labs.
Makerspace
Open to all students at the University of Derby the Makerspace is a student-led workshop based at our Markeaton Street site. There is a large range of tools in the Makerspace that you are able to use in your own time to design and develop projects.
Find out more about Makerspace
Find out more about Makerspace
How Sam became a lighting innovator
After graduating from our BSc (Hons) Sound, Light and Live Event Technology degree, Sam Bowden has gone on to a fulfilling career journey, recently winning a prestigious industry award.
Read Sam's story
Read Sam's story
Your teaching team
The teaching team has a remarkable range of experience across the sector with some still practising in the industry around their teaching. Some are also research active with an international profile. They include:
Kit Lane:
Kit joined the University in 2006 and has been working in live events and professional theatre for over 30 years. He has previously worked as a Production Manager at Derby Playhouse (now Derby Theatre), as a video and projection designer for over 20 years, and has worked on hundreds of shows across the UK as well as the USA, Australia and Ireland
Dr Adam Hill:
Adam is an Associate Professor of Electroacoustics and works seasonally as a live sound engineer at Gand Concert Sound. His research interests span across the whole of the audio engineering area, and he uses his knowledge and experience in the industry to inform his teaching
Jon Burton
:
Jon joined the University in 2019 having worked as a Sound Engineer for 35 years, primarily in concert touring. Having worked with the likes of The Prodigy, Bring Me The Horizon and Biffy Clyro, Jon is now using his experience to teach a new generation of engineers on the degree
Dr Bruce Wiggins:
Bruce completed his PhD at the University of Derby and has a research interest in audio signal processing and immersive audio. His software and algorithms have been used extensively in the industry, including for VLC, Codemasters and at Glastonbury festival. He also designed the 32 speaker Ambisonic Decoder now found in the Royal Opera House
Mark Dring:
Mark joined the University as a lecturer in 2013 having previously completed studies in Audio System Design and Acoustic Engineering. His research is focused on the reproduction and auralisation of sound in acoustically small spaces. He enjoys the diversity of experiences that teaching brings and seeks to enthuse students with their studies
View Adam Hill - Sound, Light and Live Event Technology video transcript
The entertainment industry is one of the largest employers in the world. Whether through the live event or through recorded medium, it is enabled and driven forward by its underlying technology. Our innovative BSc (Hons) Sound, Light and Live Event Engineering degree is engineering based and draws on the technical basis of electronics, computer and software systems, acoustic, sound technology and professional practices. This really is a unique and exciting degree.
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Personally, the guest speakers have been the highlight of the course. It has given me an insight to what is expected of me in the real world when embarking on my career, from both the technical and social side of things.
Regan Hawley
Sound, Light and Live Event Technology student
Real world learning
You will have the opportunity to take an optional work placement between stages two and three, during which you will gain an additional qualification, the Diploma in Professional Practice.
In addition, you will benefit from guest lectures, product demonstrations and venue visits. Recent guest speakers have included:
Industry veteran Paul Kell came in to talk about his work as a lighting designer and crew chief for artists including Paul McCartney, Bob Dylan, Adele, Iron Maiden, George Michael, The Foo Fighters, Nick Cave, and Nick Mason. He delivers annual masterclasses on lighting design and one-to-one career development sessions
Liz Berry spoke to our students about her career journey, starting as one of the first ever ‘moving light’ technicians at Vari-Lite before becoming an operator, and then a designer for some of the biggest acts in the world. She also came up with the signature lighting look for the TV programme Who Wants to Be a Millionaire? Liz is now the Managing Director of Hologramica where she designs and produces “hologram” tours for legacy artists such as Whitney Houston
Alan Hungerford, an expert on touring logistics, delivered a class on post-Brexit touring. He leaned on his past experience in tour and production management and security with clients including Adele, Robbie Williams and the Swedish House Mafia
Grammy award-winning sound engineer John Pellowe delivered a lecture on his career in recorded and live music and the application of active acoustic systems in large music venues. He is also the Project Director for Constellation Systems at Meyer Sound, a leading loudspeaker company
Chris Hill, Co-Founder of Wigwam which is one of the world-leading event hire companies, delivered a talk about what it takes to get a job and progress in the industry. He has worked with some of the most well known acts in the world, from Coldplay to the Pope, and in the largest venues from Wembley Stadium to Buckingham Palace
The University has a partnership with leading loudspeaker company
Meyer Sound
to deliver online masterclasses and an in-person training course for our Entertainment Engineering students. As a student at Derby you'll also have access to full-length seminars on topics such as acoustics, loudspeakers, audio networking, spatial sound and audio fundamentals.
Many of our students also take on casual work with production and hire companies in the area, adding a new dimension to their real world learning experiences.
How you are assessed
You will be assessed through laboratory and practical exercises, written reports and exams. You will also work on group projects, including venue and event evaluations, and will be assessed on the concerts and productions you manage and create.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Free student membership of relevant professional accreditation body
Some essential educational software packages will be provided free
Use of resources such as computer rooms, workshops and laboratories
Use of PPE kits in workshops as and when required, such as safety boots, safety googles and ear plugs
Talks from expert industry speakers
Small allowance for final year project
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Computer Accessories approx. £50
Workshop material approx. £100
Additional expenses for final year project approx. £50
Steel toecap safety footware approx. £20-40
Optional costs not included in your fees
Personal computer or tablet computer approx. £500
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
We have an excellent employment track record and our graduates work in all areas of the entertainment industry. You could work as an engineer at a hire or production company - specifying, designing and operating sound, lighting, staging and video systems - or as a theatre technical manager. Many of our graduates work as freelance engineers or set up their own businesses.
Some graduates also progress to roles in design and manufacturing, media, broadcasting, acoustics, technical sales and support, education and event technology. There are opportunities to advance to postgraduate studies too.
The foundations drilled into me throughout the programme are the cornerstone of my career. Now, more than ever it is critical to be a generalist, and I constantly draw on the wide range of topics that we covered.
Tom Bland
BSc (Hons) Sound, Light and Live Event Technology graduate
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Sound, Light and Live Event Engineering with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Music Production BSc (Hons)
Music Production with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Audio Engineering MSc