Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/nursing-courses/specialist-community-public-health-nursing-bsc-hons/

Specialist Community Public Health Nursing BSc (Hons) - Nursing - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Nursing
Specialist Community Public Health Nursing BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Specialist Community Public Health Nursing
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: Up to 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
80
(September 2024 entry)
UCAS code
UB7BG
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
The best bits
Change the lives of children and their families within a fantastic profession
Gain a professional qualification in health visiting or occupational health nursing or school nursing
Build your understanding of clinical practice and wider public health
Develop specialist assessment, leadership and management skills
Develop and build on your existing knowledge to ensure that you meet the competencies set by the Nursing and Midwifery Council, and you’re eligible to gain a registrable qualification
Become part of the public health workforce working toward improving people's lives and their health outcomes
This course is for NMC registered nurses who want to gain a professional qualification in health visiting or occupational health nursing or school nursing. If you have either a Diploma or Advanced Diploma in nursing studies this course can be studied at degree level to top up your qualification.
During this course you will:
Develop the skills you need to become a practitioner in your own area of expertise, and work as a specialist public health nurse
Learn how to share the core values of a practitioner with your colleagues to help them with their professional development
Build up your skills in clinical practice, care and programme management, leadership, and public health, which will be essential when you become a practitioner
Enhance your research skills that will help you to look at the quality of care in your current practice and suggest improvements
Improve your understanding of professional roles and functions by networking, team building and communicating with other professionals.
Practice Assessment will encompass all the four domains of care, facilitation of learning, leadership and management, research and development.
We’re proud to say that our courses are closely mapped against the health and social care sector. This ensures that our curriculum is up-to-date, providing you with the assurance that your learning is current and relevant. This does mean that we do have to respond to national changes such as government policy. As a result, some of the information about our courses may change.
Top
15
for graduate prospects
Health Studies subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
Top
15
for student satisfaction
Nursing and Midwifery subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
By completing this programme you will be able to demonstrate a critical understanding of clinical practice, care and caseload management, clinical practice leadership and clinical practice development to enable you to become an independent prescriber. Whilst studying on this programme you will spend equal amounts of time in practice and the learning environment.
You’ll also have the opportunity to go on an additional placement of your choice for three weeks. Placement hours are subject to change.
You will study modules such as:
Stage one
Evidence Based Project.
Leading for Quality
Principles of Practice Assessment
Public Health and Health Promotion.
You will also have the opportunity to choose two other modules from a range of options including V100 Prescribing, V300 Non Medical Prescribing, Child Development, Clinical supervision and many more.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You’ll be taught in a variety of ways, such as clinical practical sessions, group discussions and lectures. You’ll spend half of your time on practice placement, so you’ll get the hands-on experience as well as learning the theory at University.
How you're assessed
You will be assessed through exams, observations, assignments, a presentation and a practice portfolio. You will also be assessed on your placement by your practice teacher.
Real world learning
External specialists in their field of practice actively the support the delivery of the programme. Examples include guest lecturers in the following areas:  Safeguarding, Child and Infant Feeding, Children in Care, Child and Adolescent Mental Health, Commissioning and many more.
Who you will meet
Navjot Virk is the Programme Leader, a Health Visitor and the HV pathway leader, with interests in child development, education and vulnerable families.
Erica Lloyd is the School Nurse Pathway Lead. Her research interests include sex education and parenting support of vulnerable families, Leadership and Quality Improvements.
Neil Loach is the Occupational Health Pathway Lead and has interests in health protection, risk management, sickness absence management and Clinical Supervision.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2024 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2024 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
80
A Level
CDD
BTEC
N/A
GCSE
N/A
Access to HE
N/A
To join the course you will need an NVQ (QCF) level 3 qualification or equivalent.
Additional entry requirements
An
Enhanced Disclosure & Barring Service certificate
cleared by the University is required for this course. We will contact you with information on how to complete this once you have applied
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
N/A
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Careers
When you have completed this course, you will be able to apply for registration on part three of the Nursing and Midwifery Council register. This will allow you to practice as a Specialist Community Public Health Nurse in the UK.
When you graduate you will:
Have the skills to become an effective specialist nurse in your chosen area of expertise
Be committed to lifelong learning, encourage colleagues to be, and contribute to national debates
Be able to master clinical practice, care and programme management, clinical practice leadership, and clinical practice development
Show leadership and have a critical in depth knowledge of professional roles and functions, so you can bring about integrated and high quality health and social care, through working with other professionals effectively, networking and team working
Have knowledge and skills in evaluating current research and evidence based practice so you can influence and deliver high quality care.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Discover Uni
Other courses you might like
Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (Health Visiting or School Nursing) MSc
Chat to our students
−