Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/education-childhood-inclusion-courses/special-educational-needs-disabilities-fda/

Special Educational Needs and Disabilities FdA - Education, Childhood and SEND - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Education, Childhood and SEND
Special Educational Needs and Disabilities FdA
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Special Educational Needs and Disabilities
FdA
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Part-time: 3 to 5 years
Start date
September
Study a course designed for professionals working in the field of Special Educational Needs and/or Disabilities (SEND)
Gain experience on a course that’s been developed with employers in the sector
Specialise in areas that are appropriate to your work and interests
Develop the knowledge, understanding and professional skills to progress in your practice and contribute to bringing positive outcomes to children and young people.
Please note that you will study this course at one of our partner colleges:
Barnet Southgate College
Chesterfield College
Derby College
This part-time course is designed for professionals working in the field of Special Educational Needs and/or Disabilities (SEND) and has been developed with employers. It will enhance your ability to bring positive outcomes to the children and young people you work with. A range of relevant modules allow you to specialise in areas appropriate to your context. You will study this course at one of our partner colleges.
As you progress through the course you’ll develop as a confident, knowledgeable and effective practitioner when working with children and young people with SEND and their families within your context. It places emphasis on the knowledge, skills and competencies you’ll need to work effectively and inclusively with this group of children and young people in ways that will bring them positive outcomes.
What you will study
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You’ll study a mixture of theory and practical work and reflect on your practice.
How you're assessed
You'll be assessed using your work-based activities, creative presentations, essays, discussion papers, case studies, and portfolios. There are no exams.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
For information on entry requirements, please contact the partner college you wish to study at.
Fees and funding
2024/25
For fee information, please contact the partner college you wish to study at.
2025/26
For fee information, please contact the partner college you wish to study at.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Please apply directly to the College at which you wish to study:
Barnet and Southgate College
Chesterfield College
Derby College
Careers
You can progress on to stage three of an honours degree, for example
BA (Hons) Special Educational Needs and Disability
or
BA (Hons) Education Studies with optional SEND pathway.
Many of our graduates have gone on to senior roles within their practice and workplace settings.
In recent years many of our graduates have:
moved ahead in their vocational field - they are in senior roles, leading practice and settings.
continued on to achieve a bachelors degree.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Other courses you might like
Special Educational Needs and Disability with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Special Educational Needs and Disability BA (Hons)
Education Studies with optional pathway in SEND or TESOL BA (Hons)
Education Studies with Foundation Year BA (Hons)