Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/nursing-health-care-practice-courses/specialist-community-public-health-nursing-msc/

Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (Health Visiting or School Nursing) MSc - Nursing and Health Care Practice - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Nursing and Health Care Practice
Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (Health Visiting or School Nursing) MSc
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Postgraduate Course
Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (Health Visiting or Occupational Health Nursing or School Nursing)
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 3 years
UK fee
£6,408 for the full course*
(2024/25)
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Gain a professional qualification in health visiting or occupational health nursing or school nursing
Build your understanding of clinical practice, wider public health and leadership and management
Develop specialist assessment, leadership and management skills.
Develop and build on your existing knowledge to ensure that you meet the competencies set by the Nursing and Midwifery Council, and you’re eligible to gain a registrable qualification
Become part of the public health workforce working toward improving people's lives and their health outcomes
Join with a degree at 1:1 or 2:1, having 120 credits at degree level or equivalent academic credits
This course is for NMC registered nurses who want to gain a professional qualification in health visiting or occupational health nursing or school nursing. If you have either a Diploma or Advanced Diploma in nursing studies this course can be studied at degree level to top up your qualification.
During this course you will:
Develop the skills you need to become a practitioner in your own area of expertise, and work as a specialist public health nurse
Learn how to share the core values of a practitioner with your colleagues to help them with their professional development
Build up your skills in clinical practice, care and programme management, leadership, and public health, which will be essential when you become a practitioner
Enhance your research skills that will help you to look at the quality of care in your current practice and suggest improvements
Improve your understanding of professional roles and functions by networking, team building and communicating with other professionals.
Practice Assessment will encompass all the four domains of care, facilitation of learning, leadership and management, research and development.
We’re proud to say that our courses are closely mapped against the health and social care sector. This ensures that our curriculum is up-to-date, providing you with the assurance that your learning is current and relevant. This does mean that we do have to respond to national changes such as government policy. As a result, some of the information about our courses may change.
The Specialist Community Public Health Nurse Programme leading to Health Visitor or Occupational Health Nurse or School Nurse qualification accessed at Masters level gives you 120 credits at level 7 (Post Graduate Diploma).  You can undertake this full time (1year) or part time (up to 3 years). To complete the full MSC (Masters) you will need to gain funding or self-fund to undertake the additional 60 credits needed at level 7, which will take an additional year post HV/OHN or SN qualification.
100%
of students were satisfied with the quality of the course
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2023
100%
of students agreed that staff are enthusiastic about what they teach
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2023
100%
students agreed that the course is intellectually stimulating
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2023
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
By completing this programme you will be able to demonstrate a critical understanding of clinical practice, care and caseload management, clinical practice leadership and clinical practice development to enable you to become an independent prescriber. Whilst studying on this programme you will spend equal amounts of time in practice and the learning environment.
You will also have the opportunity to go on an additional placement of your choice for three weeks.
You will study modules such as:
Introduction to Specialism and Clinical Practice (Health Visiting, Occupational Health Nursing or School Nursing pathway)
Public Health and Educating Communities
Innovation, Leadership and Team Development
Research Based Practice, Consolidating Specialism
Mental Health across the Lifespan
Fundamental of Long-term Condition Management in Adults (Occupational Health Nursing pathway)
Supporting Vulnerable People within the Family Context (School Nursing or Health Visiting pathway)
MSc
You will study this module to gain the full MSc:
Independent Scholarship
This research based module will allow an in-depth exploration of a specific area of practice. You will study this module over a year to gain the full MSc. Self-funding is required for this stage.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
During this course you will study in University and independently for 50% of your time and the other 50% of the time will be within a placement setting.
We will teach you in a variety of ways, such as:
Role modelling
Exposure to evidence-based practice
Group discussions
Presentations
Lectures
Action learning sets.
When you’ve completed the course you will have developed the skills you will need to become an effective specialist nurse in your chosen area of expertise.
To complete the Postgraduate Diploma stage this course will take you one year of full time study or two years of part time study, subject to your Strategic Health Authority contract. The MSc stage takes a further year. Half of your time will be spent on a placement, so you will get hands-on experience, as well as learning the theory.
How you're assessed
You will be assessed through exams, observations, assignments, presentation and a practice portfolio. You will also be assessed on your placement by your practice teacher.
Entry requirements
This course is for NMC registered nurses who want to gain a professional qualification in either health visiting, occupational health nursing or school nursing. If you have either a Diploma or Advanced Diploma in nursing studies this course can be studied at degree level to top up your qualification.
To study this course you must:
Hold a current nurse or midwife qualification and have a current registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council
Possess a degree at 1:1 or 2:1 having 120 credits at degree level or equivalent academic credits or Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL)
Have gained a student Health Visitor or Occupational Health Nurse or School Nurse position from a seconding/sponsoring organisation
Have at least one-year post registration experience due to the requirements of the V100 prescribing component and 2 years if taking the V300 non-medical prescribing qualification (NMC)
It is the Employers responsibility to ensure that any necessary Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) checks and health checks are carried out, proof of this and indemnity will be required prior to commencement of the Programme. The student will have successfully applied for a clinical secondment/sponsorship with a local Care Provider/employer prior to applying for this Programme.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£6,408 for the full course*
£712 per 20 credits
International
N/A
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Commissioned programme employer-funded/self-funded for Occupational Health Nurses.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Careers
When you have completed this course, you will be able to apply for registration on part three of the Nursing and Midwifery Council register. This will allow you to practice as a Specialist Community Public Health Nurse in the UK.
When you graduate you will:
Have the skills to become an effective specialist nurse in your chosen area of expertise
Be committed to lifelong learning, encourage colleagues to be, and contribute to national debates
Be able to master clinical practice, care and programme management, clinical practice leadership, and clinical practice development
Show leadership and have a critical in depth knowledge of professional roles and functions, so you can bring about integrated and high quality health and social care, through working with other professionals effectively, networking and team working
Have knowledge and skills in evaluating current research and evidence based practice so you can influence and deliver high quality care.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.