Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/journalism-courses/specialist-sports-journalism-ba-hons/

Specialist Sports Journalism BA (Hons) - Journalism - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Journalism
Specialist Sports Journalism BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Specialist Sports Journalism
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 Years,  Part-time: 4-6 Years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
P503
Start date
September
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
Study our brand-new curriculum, which has been updated to keep pace with the industry and develop skills which you can utilise in the world of journalism and communications.
Build your experience by working in the sport you’re most passionate about while you’re studying. We’ll use our extensive contacts to help you get your foot in the door at sports clubs and media organisations, and we’ll provide access to international, national and domestic sporting events.
Learn from tutors that are experienced and well connected, having worked for organisations such as the BBC, ITV, the Premier League, The Guardian and The Times.
Students formed part of the media team at the 2023 European Para Table Tennis Championships
91
%
of students agreed that the course challenges them to achieve their best work
BA (Hons) Specialist Sports Journalism - National Student Survey 2024
Top
15
for career prospects
Journalism - Guardian University Guide 2025
A sports journalism degree for 2024
We’ve made changes to our curriculum to ensure that we’re fit for the industry as it is. New modules on e-sports, videography, commentary and punditry, data analysis and visualisation, and the societal impact of journalism complement those delivered with focus on more established aspects of the profession.
This is in response to changes in the industry, such as the proliferation of specialist sport websites and the shift in power away from traditional media. Sports clubs and organisations are now taking control of their own narrative and looking for well-qualified media professionals who can help them build their audiences and communicate directly with fans. Our aim is to help you build those skills alongside the essential aspects of traditional journalism, such as interviewing, newswriting and media law.
Throughout your studies, you will gain significant hands-on experience of news gathering, reporting, and producing content for your chosen sport — including sports reports, social media content, stories and profiles of athletes, podcasts, feature articles, and blogs. You’ll cover all aspects of the news cycle from previewing events to live reporting and post-event analysis. To see what our students get up to and view the content they produce, take a look at our
StoryHub
website and
X feed
.
As well as producing content, you’ll also be asked to analyse the work of current journalists to understand what best practice looks like. You will also learn more generally about communication, media, and societal issues in journalism.
Get professional experience
Our tutors are well-connected in the industry. They will put you in touch with sports and media organisations, so you can start to gain valuable work experience while you are studying.
You will not only have the opportunity to make the most of attending major international, national and domestic events, but also take advantage of our strong links with numerous clubs and organisations across a variety of sports. Our current group of students regularly work in basketball, netball, tennis, cricket, cycling, horse racing and motorsport, turning our contacts into their own, and setting themselves up for a successful future in the industry.
By the end of the course – provided you’ve made the most of these opportunities – you should have an impressive editorial portfolio to show prospective employers.
Follow your passion
Unlike other sports journalism courses, you have the option to specialise in a sport of your choice — from the more obvious ones like cricket, rugby and football, to minority sports. You are expected to gain an in-depth knowledge of your sport, covering every level — from grassroots to the biggest names in international sport. You will learn about the business, finance and use of data in sport, and critically explore other current issues.
This specialist sports journalism degree is also extremely varied, with optional modules in years two and three, so you can tailor your degree to your own talents and interests.
Capturing the spirit of Shrovetide Football
Read how our Journalism students navigated challenging terrain, gained valuable experience and became published journalists while covering one of Derbyshire's proudest traditions.
Be inspired by our students
Be inspired by our students
Fresh from hosting ITV’s coverage of the Rugby World Cup, broadcaster Mark Pougatch visited us to give students the benefits of his advice and experience
Be inspired by guest speakers
You’ll gain fascinating insights into the profession thanks to our programme of guest lectures by sports journalists, broadcasters and industry insiders. In recent years these have included:
Broadcaster Mark Pougatch
Commentator Jonathan Pearce
Former professional boxer and commentator, Carl Froch
Professional footballer George Friend
Former gymnast and Commonwealth Games England board member, Kristian Thomas
Journalist Henry Winter
Commentator Rob Palmer
Journalist Paul Hayward
Head of Communications at British Canoeing, Ruth Norfolk
Outstanding facilities
You'll be based at our Markeaton Street and Kedleston Road sites, which have everything a journalist needs. Our facilities include three radio studios, a fully equipped television studio, video editing suites, Mac suites and a newsroom featuring the latest software, including Adobe Creative Suite.
Our radio studios have recently been refurbished and fitted with
Calrec
technology — a leading range of broadcast audio mixing consoles and equipment. All large media companies are now migrating to this technology, so we're ahead of the game.
All of this means you’ll be confident using industry-standard technology, giving you an advantage when you're looking for a job.
Study abroad
We can offer opportunities for you to spend time in another country, including studying at our partner universities or working on a placement or internship.
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
The key to becoming a journalist is to learn the essential skills so, at the start of your degree, you will learn the basics of finding and telling stories. As you progress you will develop more advanced skills in multimedia content production.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You will learn in a variety of ways – for example through:
Lectures and seminars, including guest lectures from industry experts
Practice-based workshops
Trips to sports events and clubs
News days
Group work
Independent study.
Assessment
Our assessments are focused on teaching you how to be a journalist. There are no exams and you’ll be assessed mainly on the content you produce, which might be blogs, podcasts, videos, features, and news articles. For some modules, you will need to complete more academic assessments, including essays, case study reports and presentations.
Who you'll meet
You will benefit from the experience of all of our staff within the Journalism department, however in the main your course will be delivered by:
Niall Hickman: Programme Leader for Sports Journalism
Niall Hickman is the Programme Leader for Specialist Sports Journalism. He worked in the industry for three decades, covering a variety of sports including football, cricket, rugby, golf, boxing, athletics and even the World Pooh Stick Championships! He’s worked for media outlets such as the South London Press, ITV, Sky Sports, the Daily Mail and the Daily Express. Niall has also ghost-written two autobiographies for boxing world champions Ricky Hatton and Carl Froch. His career highlights were interviewing the likes of Muhammad Ali, Mike Tyson, Sugar Ray Leonard, Lennox Lewis and German footballing legend Lothar Mattheus.
Carly Baldwin: Lecturer in Sports Journalism
Carly Baldwin is a lecturer and sports journalism graduate herself. Since graduating, she has spent the last 15 years working predominantly in PR and communications roles across the sector, including with football clubs, national governing bodies and at major multi-sport events. Her career highlight was working at the London Olympics 2012.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Niall Hickman
Programme Leader
Niall Hickman
Niall is a Lecturer in Journalism.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
Offers will be made initially based on your application, including predicted grades and/or grades you have already achieved. You may be given the opportunity, within your offer letter, to submit a portfolio. If you submit a strong portfolio we will make you an unconditional offer, to reflect the quality of your work and your potential.
Additional entry requirements
Portfolio: Recommended -
view portfolio details
English language requirements
IELTS: 7.0 (with at least 6.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Access to the Equipment Centre which stocks a huge range of cameras, audio equipment, and accessories which are available for booking by students at no cost
Mandatory trips to media companies or other interesting organisations. Previous trips have included visiting BBC Radio Derby, the Derby Telegraph, the Nottingham Post and BBC News and Sport at Salford
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Some equipment including storage drives (about £10) and external storage drives (£50 - £100) for use with cameras
Optional costs not included in your fees
It is useful but not essential to have a smartphone (£50 - £750)
Some students choose to buy accessories for the phone such as external microphones (approx. £10 - £15) and tripods (£5 - £25)
Some students also find it useful to purchase their own laptop for use in the field but this is not required (from £150)
It is also possible that you will want to travel to cover particular news stories - as this is not required by the course, the cost is not covered in your fees
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
By the end of this specialist sports journalism degree, you should have plenty of professional experience and contacts to get your career off to a flying start.
The course develops the broad range of knowledge and skills you need to become a sports journalist today, but it also prepares you for broader careers in journalism, PR and marketing, advertising, corporate communications, law and public administration or politics.
Our specialist sports journalism graduates are now working for clubs and organisations like Leicester Tigers Rugby Club, Leicester City FC, Channel 5 Boxing, British Swimming, the LTA (Lawn Tennis Association), England Netball, World Snooker, Bet 365, BBC Radio Derby, Derbyshire County Cricket Club and many more.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Part-time
Other courses you might like
Football Journalism BA (Hons)
Journalism BA (Hons)
Chat to our students
−
Capturing the spirit of Shrovetide Football
Read how our Journalism students navigated challenging terrain, gained valuable experience and became published journalists while covering one of Derbyshire's proudest traditions.
Be inspired by our students
Be inspired by our students