Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/sport-exercise-science-courses/sport-coaching-and-coach-development-ba-hons/

Sport Coaching and Coach Development BA (Hons)  - Sport and Exercise Science - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Sport and Exercise Science
Sport Coaching and Coach Development BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Sport Coaching and Coach Development
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years,  Part-time: Up to 6 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
C620
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Whether you’d like to coach elite/amateur athletes or promote the benefits of sport to the wider community, this course will put you ahead of the game.
Develop the skills and knowledge for exciting careers which focus on both performance and participation in sport
Learn how to use sport as a catalyst for change, working with individuals and groups of all levels and abilities to advance their development and engagement in sport
Enhance your employability with exciting and relevant voluntary work placement opportunities across the sector
Gain additional sport coaching awards to add substance to your CV
Make the most of our exceptional sports facilities in our specialist
sports centre
Be inspired by our enthusiastic and expert staff who boast a wealth of professional experience in sport coaching and personal development across a range of sports and activities, as well as guest lectures from expert coaches in the area
The content of this course, and its focus on increasing participation in sport, is aligned to the priorities of global initiatives, such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, where 'Good Health and Well-being' is highlighted as a priority
100
%
of students agreed that staff are good at explaining things
BA (Hons) Sport Coaching and Development - National Student Survey 2024
Sport and Exercise Science - your questions answered
In the below video, Head of School for Sport and Exercise Science, Andy Hooton, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Sport and Exercise Science at the University of Derby.
View Sport and Exercise Science - your questions answered! video transcript
Sport Coaching and Coach Development at Derby
Whether you'd like to coach athletes or promote the benefits of sport and coaching to the wider community, this practical course will help you to develop an understanding of the technical, physical and psychological elements that affect participation and development in sport. It will also give you knowledge of sport science principles, as well as awareness of the moral, ethical, environmental and legal issues that allow best practice within coaching environments.
This course is designed to introduce you to, experience and explore the theory of coaching and have the opportunity to apply these concepts in supported environments, both within the coaching environment and with key partners in the local and regional area.
Real world experience
As a student on the BA (Hons) Sport Coaching and Coach Development course, you will be able to apply theoretical learning to inspiring environments and gain in-depth knowledge of the profession, ensuring you graduate as a confident and independent professional.
You’ll have the chance to experience a variety of coaching delivery settings, from group coaching to individual performance development, which will expand your skills and knowledge through fieldtrips, internships and work placements. You’ll work with a range of county and regional based partners, such as National Governing Bodies of Sport, Regional and Local Associations, as well as key delivery partners such as Community Trust Programmes, Independent Providers and Elite and Grass Roots clubs. You may also get to work with professional and amateur athletes in our
Human Performance Unit
.
The programme is further supported by guest speakers from within the sport industry, sharing their experiences by bringing theory and concepts to life in the real world, alongside development key contacts as students develop their pathway in the industry.
An impressive portfolio of skills
The type of learning on the course enhances your chances of employment after graduation as you can build on your CV as you learn, by evidencing the skills in planning, delivering and reviewing coaching practices, as well as developing transferable interpersonal skills.
You could take part in specialist training to add further professional qualifications to your portfolio, including coaching badges and other awards given by the national governing bodies for specific sports.
If you are also interested in further study to postgraduate level, we will help you prepare for this, as you will gain experience of academic research, conduct an independent investigation into a topic of your choice, and take part in university conferences.
Expert teaching
Our teaching staff will support you throughout your studies to enhance your ability to not only understand the techniques, content and integration of a range of sports and activities, but to also consider how your passion and specialism can be developed. They have a wealth of professional experience in sports coaching and development together with extensive contacts across the industry. Alongside teaching, our lecturers work as applied practitioners with a range of sports professionals and organisations, including coaching, coach developers and consultants.
They also have strong links with professional bodies at regional and national levels, such as key sports governing bodies such as the Football Association, the Lawn Tennis Association and British Cycling, as well as local professional, amateur and grassroots clubs across all sports in the county and region. For example,
Jon Woodward
(Programme Leader) has extensive experience in the world of applied sport coaching through working with a range of National Governing Bodies, Home Country Sports Councils and professional and amateur sports clubs. He is a national tutor for UK Coaching delivering a variety of workshops and development sessions. His key areas of interest focus on coach development, talent ID and development and working with youth athletes. He is also a parent to two county level athletes.
Such partnerships add an extra dimension to your studies, including networking with professional coaches, elite athletes, sports development specialists and many more leaders in the field.
Managing Excellence
When Mark Faghy first arrived in Derby as a teenage undergraduate, he stated proudly that his goal was to become manager of the England football team. Now he is a respected research academic leading an international collaboration in the fight against Covid. And his students are helping.
Read Mark's story
Read Mark's story
Specialist facilities
Our Derby campus is the perfect setting for a stimulating learning experience in sport. Our sports centre includes a main hall, fitness gym with strength and conditioning area, studios, squash and badminton courts, an internal climbing wall, sprint track and sports therapy treatment rooms. You will also have access to specialist equipment such as our 3D motion analysis equipment, sports performance analysis software, and physiological testing equipment.
Take a look at our sports facilities
Our purpose-built Sports Centre provides facilities for playing and studying sport, including a gym, sports hall, climbing wall and 3G pitches.
Take a virtual tour
Take a virtual tour
Our Performance Suite
Our Performance Suite allows Sport and Exercise Science students to learn about performance analysis, biomechanics, strength and conditioning, and injury prevention. As well as elite athletes outside of the University, you'll also be working with our Team Derby athletes to help them improve their performance and successfully compete. Take a look at the Performance Suite and Vicon cameras in action:
View Open Day Live - Performance Suite video transcript
Zenon becomes an Academy Football Analyst for Arsenal FC
Zenon Backhouse has made it into the Premier League as a Performance Analyst by securing a role with Arsenal Football Club.
Find out more about Zenon's story
Find out more about Zenon's story
Placements prepare James for sporting life after graduation
BA (Hons) Sport Coaching and Development student, James Stainton’s determination to learn has led him to completing numerous work placements, building confidence and preparing him for life after graduation.
Find out more about James' story
Find out more about James' story
Sports Scholarships
The University of Derby is a sporting hub for talented athletes and coaches. We have a track record of improving the performance of our
University sports clubs
and we have created an infrastructure to provide support for talented athletes. We offer a
Sports Scholarship
programme that aims to help talented student-athletes realise their sporting potential while supporting them through their academic studies. We offer scholarships of up to £6,000 and provide tailored athlete-support packages delivered by an experienced multi-disciplinary Performance Sport team. Two of the Universities most recent successful sports scholars are Charlie Tanfield (World Champion and Commonwealth Cycling gold medallist) and Jack Burnell (European Open Water silver medallist 2016 and Olympian 2016).
Join Team Derby
If you enjoy a challenge and would like to make the most of your own sporting passion and prowess, you could become involved with
Team Derby
which is the focal point for the University’s sporting community. It encompasses all aspects of sport, including courses, numerous sports clubs, the Athletics Union and sport development activities. You can also take part in the national
BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport)
competitions.
We have also recently appointed Double Olympic Medallist, Bryan Steel, as the Head Coach for Team Derby Performance Sport Cycling. Bryan is a celebrated figure in the world of cycling, bringing a wealth of experience to his role. The decorated Olympian, who represented Team GB at four Olympic Games from 1992 to 2004, boasts an impressive medal collection. His crowning achievements include a bronze medal in the team pursuit event at the 2000 Sydney Olympics and a silver medal at the 2004 Athens Games in the same discipline. Brian's journey also includes 14 World Championship appearances, where he secured five medals, along with three medals at the Commonwealth Games. With the arrival of Bryan, Performance Sport at the university will work in partnership with HUUB-BCC Race Team to give track and road riders access to an elite pathway during and post higher education. This collaboration opens doors for Team Derby Performance Cycling's athletes, offering a unique opportunity to bridge their academic pursuits with professional cycling aspirations.
View Sport at Derby video transcript
Hear from our teaching team
Senior Lecturer, Dr Luke Gibson, gives an insight into his industry experience, his research in professional sport, and some of the modules he teaches on:
View BA (Hons) Sport Coaching and Coach Development at Derby video transcript
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You'll learn through a combination of lectures, interactive tutorials, seminars, and workshops. There will be a significant amount of practical teaching and learning experiences throughout the course, enabling students to develop their practical skills and application of theory to practice. Students will be encouraged to work individually and as part of a group to gain skills relevant to the world of coaching and sport development employment.
How you'll be assessed
Within the programme there is a wide range of innovative assessment methods designed to enhance learning. There are a range of assessment methods including essays, practical assessments, multi-media presentations, exams, poster presentations, evaluation of work placement logs and diaries and a dissertation. All assessment formats are designed to mirror key elements within the coaching sector.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Jon Woodward
Programme Leader
Jon Woodward
As a Senior Lecturer in Sports Coaching across the Sport and Exercise Science programmes, Jon supports students from a range of programmes with their learning, teaching and assessment activities, as well as supporting students with acc...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
T Level
Merit
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
If you're an international student and want to improve your English language skills before you start your course, the Derby English Language Centre's
pre-sessional English course
can help you.
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
To welcome you to our team, you’ll receive a University of Derby, Sport and Exercise Science t-shirt
If a DBS check is needed for the purposes of a module or programme related work placement, this is included in your fee if done via the University
There is also access to a selection of NGB linked coaching sessions (including the LTA, the FA, PGA/Golf, Basketball, RFU) to widen your experience
Additional experiences such a relevant sport coaching events/organisations are also included and we will contribute to, or pay the full cost of, additional qualifications which are arranged by us. For other additional qualifications that you're interested in, we may contribute to or fund these but this is at the Sport department's discretion
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
If not already owned, appropriate clothing for practical sessions such as tracksuit bottoms and trainers - approximate cost is £50 to £100
Travel to placements - cost varies depending on your placement venue of choice
Optional costs not included in your fees
Lots of e-books are available for free through the University Library, however you may wish to purchase a hard copy of these at your own expense
To support your studies, you may want to invest in additional qualifications such as pitch-side first aid and safeguarding - costs will vary depending on your choice
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
This course has been developed so that you’ll graduate ready for the world of work and be equipped to enter coaching. This course gives you an advantage in an exciting and developing industry across the sports sector. On graduating, you’ll be ideally placed to embark on careers in areas such as sports coaching in different environments and contexts, talent identification and development, development of athletes of all ages, sport development and management, and health promotion. At a time when sport participation has become part of wider government and health initiatives such as GP exercise referral programmes, the career scope is broadening further still.
The format of this programme will also support your progression into roles associated within National Governing Bodies, Community Sport Trusts, Educational settings and club environments, or to continue onto further study.
If you would like to take your knowledge of sport to the next level, this degree also acts as a gateway to postgraduate education, with opportunities for you to progress to masters level courses such as our innovative
MSc Clinical Exercise Science
and
MSc Applied Sport and Exercise Science
- which has a Sport and Exercise Psychology pathway.
Alternatively, if you’d like to embark on a career in teaching, you’ll discover multiple progression routes for trainee teachers at the University of Derby, including our
PGCE Primary
,
PGCE Secondary (School Direct) with Qualified Teacher Status
or
PGCE Post-14 (Education and Training)
programmes. Entry to these courses is subject to you meeting initial teacher training entry requirements.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Sport and Education BA (Hons)
Sport Coaching and Coach Development with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Sport and Exercise Science BSc (Hons)
Sport Therapy and Rehabilitation BSc (Hons)