Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/sport-exercise-science-courses/sport-therapy-and-rehabilitation-bsc-hons-foundation/

Sport Therapy and Rehabilitation with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)  - Sport and Exercise Science - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Sport and Exercise Science
Sport Therapy and Rehabilitation with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Sport Therapy and Rehabilitation with Foundation Year
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
C633
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
As demand for Graduate Sports Therapists continues to grow, this degree will help you develop high-level professional knowledge at a University accredited by The Society of Sports Therapists.
Choose a course recognised for its high academic quality; this course is accredited by
The Society of Sports Therapists
Complete over 200 hours of clinical placements to gain hands-on experience of the profession and apply theory to practice
Build a thorough understanding of the rehabilitation process, including manual therapy techniques, exercise therapy and sports massage
Have the opportunity to work at national sporting events to gain experience in the industry
Make the most of our specialist clinical space and other facilities
Be inspired by our enthusiastic and expert staff who boast a wealth of professional experience working with elite athletes
This is a dynamic course which will set you apart as an industry-ready graduate Sports Therapist.
Sport Therapy and Rehabilitation at Derby
Clients and patients rely on sports therapists to help them reach optimum levels of functional, occupational and sports-specific fitness. As a professional working in this field, you’ll harness the principles of sport and exercise to help boost performance and develop injury prevention and rehabilitation programmes. You’ll also deliver assessments and treatments in a variety of recreational, training and competitive settings.
This course offers a powerful blend of science and practice. You’ll gain in-depth knowledge of anatomy and movement while covering the rehabilitation process in all its aspects, including manual therapy techniques, exercise therapy, and sports massage.
Throughout, we introduce the latest research in this rapidly evolving discipline to help advance your practice as a therapist and ensure your work is informed by current thinking.
Top
5
for student satisfaction
Counselling, Psychotherapy & Occupational Therapy subject area - Complete University Guide 2025
Top
15
for Counselling, Psychotherapy and Occupational Therapy
Complete University Guide 2025
100
%
of students agreed that the course challenged them to do their best work
BSc (Hons) Sport Therapy and Rehabilitation - National Student Survey 2024
97
%
of students agreed they were satisfied with the teaching on this course
BSc (Hons) Sport Therapy and Rehabilitation - National Student Survey 2024
95
%
of students agreed they were satisfied with the academic support
BSc (Hons) Sport Therapy and Rehabilitation - National Student Survey 2024
Sport and Exercise Science - your questions answered
In the below video, Head of School for Sport and Exercise Science, Andy Hooton, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Sport and Exercise Science at the University of Derby.
View Sport and Exercise Science - your questions answered! video transcript
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Expert teaching
Our Sports Therapy teaching team has vast professional experience in sports therapy and rehabilitation. Staff have forged extensive links with local sports clubs and private sports injury clinics which allow students to benefit from fantastic hands-on placements in their final year of study.
These strong professional networks will open doors for you, with guest lectures, demonstrations and employer-led projects adding an extra dimension to your studies.
Real world learning in action
Clinical placements are a key feature of this course. Throughout your final year of study you will be required to undertake 200 hours of clinical placement. Some of these hours will be gained through hands-on experience working within the with Student-led Sports Injury Clinic which is open to staff and students of the University. By working with patients under expert staff supervision, you’ll be ready to practice effectively once you graduate.
Fieldtrips will also broaden your outlook. There are opportunities to visit St George's Park, The DMRC and Therapy Expo as well as others. In addition to this, you will be offered the opportunity to develop your CV further through undertaking additional discounted qualifications such as Kinesio taping, Sports Massage Level 3, Fitness Instructor Level 2 and others.
Managing Excellence
When Mark Faghy first arrived in Derby as a teenage undergraduate, he stated proudly that his goal was to become manager of the England football team. Now he is a respected research academic leading an international collaboration in the fight against Covid. And his students are helping.
Read Mark's story
Read Mark's story
An accredited course
Many jobs within sports therapy and rehabilitation today require applicants to be registered with
The Society of Sports Therapists
. Because our BSc (Hons) Sport Therapy and Rehabilitation course is accredited by the Society, you’ll graduate with a highly regarded and nationally recognised qualification, together with a professional standing.
As the lead organisation for sports therapists in the UK, the Society gives its seal of approval to degrees which set high professional standards. When you start your course, you’ll therefore have the opportunity to become a member of the Society. Once you graduate, you’ll then be eligible to apply for full membership as a graduate sports therapist. This represents an important addition to your CV and will help you stand out when meeting potential employers.
Our Performance Suite
Our Performance Suite allows Sport and Exercise Science students to learn about performance analysis, biomechanics, strength and conditioning, and injury prevention. As well as elite athletes outside of the University, you'll also be working with our Team Derby athletes to help them improve their performance and successfully compete. Take a look at the Performance Suite and Vicon cameras in action:
View Open Day Live - Performance Suite video transcript
Impressive sports facilities
Your learning experience and your social life at University will be enriched by the imposing facilities at our £10.8m
Sports Centre
.
The centre also features a main hall, fitness gym with strength and conditioning area, studios, squash and badminton courts, an internal climbing wall, sprint track, changing rooms, treatment rooms and a café. With floodlit all-weather pitches and tennis courts adding to the picture, it means there is a wealth of opportunities to take part in a diverse range of sports – for elite performers and beginners alike.
You can improve your practical know-how in our dedicated sport therapy clinical teaching spaces, which includes specialist rehabilitation equipment identical to what you would find in a private practice.
Sports Scholarships
The University of Derby is a sporting hub for talented athletes and coaches. We have a track record of improving the performance of our
University sports clubs
and we have created an infrastructure to provide support for talented athletes. We offer a
Sports Scholarship
programme that aims to help talented student-athletes realise their sporting potential while supporting them through their academic studies. We offer scholarships of up to £6,000 and provide tailored athlete-support packages delivered by an experienced multi-disciplinary Performance Sport team.
Join Team Derby
If you enjoy a challenge and would like to make the most of your own sporting passion and prowess, you could become involved with
Team Derby
which is the focal point for the University’s sporting community. It encompasses all aspects of sport, including courses, numerous sports clubs, the Athletics Union and sport development activities. You can also take part in the national
BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport)
competitions.
We have also recently appointed Double Olympic Medallist, Bryan Steel, as the Head Coach for Team Derby Performance Sport Cycling. Bryan is a celebrated figure in the world of cycling, bringing a wealth of experience to his role. The decorated Olympian, who represented Team GB at four Olympic Games from 1992 to 2004, boasts an impressive medal collection. His crowning achievements include a bronze medal in the team pursuit event at the 2000 Sydney Olympics and a silver medal at the 2004 Athens Games in the same discipline. Brian's journey also includes 14 World Championship appearances, where he secured five medals, along with three medals at the Commonwealth Games. With the arrival of Bryan, Performance Sport at the university will work in partnership with HUUB-BCC Race Team to give track and road riders access to an elite pathway during and post higher education. This collaboration opens doors for Team Derby Performance Cycling's athletes, offering a unique opportunity to bridge their academic pursuits with professional cycling aspirations.
View Sport at Derby video transcript
Work placement confirms Olivia's passion for the future
Work placements during your degree can help show you a path to your future. Olivia Brown’s work placement confirmed that a future in sport therapy is where her passion lies.
Find out more about Olivia's placement
Find out more about Olivia's placement
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You’ll learn through a combination of clinics, lectures, practical sessions, seminars, laboratories, workshops, tutorials, and guided self-study. During your study, you will complete a number of work placements in our real world learning labs and, using the knowledge, skills, and understanding you acquire, you’ll learn to evaluate research and use it to develop your clinical decision making skills and inform your practice as a therapist.
Assessment
The course assesses the professional, academic, and scientific skills considered key to becoming a research savvy, industry-ready sports therapist and rehabilitator. Assessments will include oral presentations, structured clinical examinations, written projects, problem solving exercises, laboratory reports, professional development work, exercise prescription tasks, essays, practical viva voce, and case studies.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Jeanette Lewis
Programme Leader
Jeanette Lewis
Jeanette Lewis is an enthusiastic sports therapy practitioner and a lecturer in Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation here at the University of Derby. Jeanette has been a practising sports therapist since 2008 and has worked within larger ...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
If you're an international student and want to improve your English language skills before you start your course, the Derby English Language Centre's
pre-sessional English course
can help you.
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
To welcome you to our team, you’ll receive a University of Derby, Sport and Exercise Science t-shirt
Annual membership of the Society of Sport Therapists for the duration of your studies
A hydrotherapy and cryotherapy trip
Pitchside First Aid Qualification (we will contribute to or pay the full cost of additional qualifications which are arranged by us. For other additional qualifications you’re interested in, we may contribute to or fund these but this is at the Sport department’s discretion)
If a DBS check is needed for the purposes of a module or programme related work placement, this is included in your fee if done via the University
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
If not already owned, appropriate clothing for practical sessions such as tracksuit bottoms and trainers - approximate cost is £50-£100
Travel to placements - cost varies depending on your placement venue of choice
Optional costs not included in your fees
You may wish to purchase optional textbooks or e-books to support your studies - costs for these are dependent on your choice
To support your studies, you may want to invest in additional qualifications such as a Sports Massage Qualification, Kinesiotaping or Safeguarding - costs will vary depending on your choice
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Because this course is aligned to the professional guidelines set out by The Society of Sports Therapists, you’ll be fully prepared to go into practice as an injury and exercise-based rehabilitation and fitness specialist. You can also progress to roles working in multi-disciplinary or inter-disciplinary healthcare teams.
Your qualification also puts you on the pathway to postgraduate education, including the exciting and innovative masters courses available at Derby. You could consider our
MSc Applied Sport and Exercise Science
- which also has a psychology pathway, or our
MSc Clinical Exercise Science
programme.
Through our Professional Development Package, you'll gain valuable transferable skills, including:
Written and verbal communication
Research and analytical
Personal motivation, organisation and self-reflection
Numeracy
IT literacy
Critical awareness
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Sport Therapy and Rehabilitation BSc (Hons)