Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/sport-exercise-science-courses/sport-management-ba-hons-foundation/

Sport Management with Foundation Year BA (Hons) - Sport and Exercise Science - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Sport and Exercise Science
Sport Management with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Sport Management with Foundation Year
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
6G90
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
As sport becomes an ever more powerful industry in the global market place, there has never been a better time to consider a career in sport management. Choose our honours degree with a foundation year to keep ahead of the game.
Select our four-year course to smooth your academic progress and gain all the support and guidance you need
Once you have completed your foundation year, you'll move onto study a course that is accredited by the
Chartered Management Institute (CMI
), and has recognised degree status awarded by the
Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM)
. You'll also gain a
CMI L5 Diploma in Management and Leadership
(subject to passing required components)
Realise your potential: a course with a foundation year is ideal if you are contemplating a career change or want to immerse yourself in a new subject
Take your first steps towards a dream career: you could go on to work behind-the-scenes with professional sports clubs or at major international sporting events
Build wide-ranging skills in strategy, leadership, enterprise, marketing, media, PR, finance, events and operations – all with a focus on the sports business environment
Apply theory to practice through placement opportunities with the likes of Derby County FC, Team Derby and other sport businesses
Assist with the organisation of major sporting events – from football to cricket and half marathons
Distinctive and dynamic, this course will appeal to anyone with an enthusiasm for sport and a thirst for business and management knowledge. It provides a compelling mix of skills to put you at the forefront of what is one of the most lucrative and high-profile business sectors of all.
100
%
of students agreed they were satisfied with the academic support
BA (Hons) Sport Management - National Student Survey 2024
100
%
of students agreed staff were good at explaining things
BA (Hons) Sport Management - National Student Survey 2024
100
%
of students agreed that staff made the subject engaging
BA (Hons) Sport Management - National Student Survey 2024
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Charlene Sharp, BA (Hons) Sport Management graduate
Why our degree is the business
After you've completed your foundation year, you'll then study our BA (Hons) Sport Management course. This programme is accredited by the
Chartered Management Institute (CMI)
which is dedicated to promoting excellence in management and leadership. It is one of the few degrees in the country where you can graduate with the CMI L5 Diploma in Management and Leadership alongside your degree (subject to passing required components).
The Diploma is the benchmark for full CMI membership and takes you a step towards Chartered Manager status, signalling to prospective employers that you’re equipped for senior sport and business management roles. There is no additional cost, and you won’t need to take extra exams or coursework to achieve this Diploma.
The course is also a
Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM)
recognised degree meaning that the marketing content of the course has been mapped against the CIMs unique professional marking competencies. Graduates will be able to demonstrate the high standards required by those working as marketing professionals in sport. You will gain exemptions from the CIM Certificate in Professional Digital Marketing to advance your career.
The career scope is limitless when you think of the momentous developments transforming sport today – from the multi-million pound sponsorship deals to the unprecedented sums generated by broadcasting rights, from the media clamour surrounding sports stars to the way our growing appetite for sport is harnessed to bolster economic growth in local communities.
Sports event management, marketing, media relations, business development, sport policy and planning, sport finance and international sport business – all will form a crucial part of your studies on this hugely varied degree. You’ll also build broader skills in research methods, strategy and professional practice.
Learning in a real-world context
You will see the business of sport up close. We take you beyond the classroom so that you can develop your management and leadership know-how in real professional scenarios.
Our BA (Hons) Sport Management broke new ground by becoming the first course of its kind in the country to guarantee every student a sport business work placement during each year of their studies. Our students have gained invaluable insights through working directly with names such as Derby County Football Club, Derbyshire County Cricket Club, Derby Arena, Derby City Council, Sport-80, Team Raleigh, Team Derby and Sporting Futures.
In just one example, our partnership with Derby County FC has seen our students attend live press conferences; get involved with commercial hospitality and retail management; take part in crowd management on match days; learn about sophisticated ticketing systems; explore legal and HR issues surrounding staff contracts; and undertake consultancy and research projects on behalf of the club.
You’ll also assist with the delivery and organisation of sports events locally and nationally. Recent examples – to name but a few – have included Championship and FA Cup football matches, T20 cricket matches, National Badminton League matches and the Derby Half Marathon.
An engaging and inspirational experience
Our contacts book includes leading industry professionals from around the world, so you will have every chance to build your own networks. We offer an exciting range of guest lectures to broaden your perspectives, including masterclasses delivered online from overseas.
Our lecturing staff are enthusiastic, approachable and committed to making your learning experience lively and stimulating from the outset.
You will be taught by a highly qualified and experienced team with an impressive track record for teaching, research and broad industry-based experience. Programme Leader,
Lee Pridmore
, is a
CMI
Chartered Manager, which is a stand out achievement and shows his dedication to making a positive impact to the future of his students.
Sport and Exercise Science - your questions answered
In the below video, Head of School for Sport and Exercise Science, Andy Hooton, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Sport and Exercise Science at the University of Derby.
View Sport and Exercise Science - your questions answered! video transcript
Sports Scholarships
The University of Derby is a sporting hub for talented athletes and coaches. We have a track record of improving the performance of our
University sports clubs
and we have created an infrastructure to provide support for talented athletes. We offer a
Sports Scholarship
programme that aims to help talented student-athletes realise their sporting potential while supporting them through their academic studies. We offer scholarships of up to £6,000 and provide tailored athlete-support packages delivered by an experienced multi-disciplinary Performance Sport team.
Join Team Derby
If you enjoy a challenge and would like to make the most of your own sporting passion and prowess, you could become involved with
Team Derby
which is the focal point for the University’s sporting community. It encompasses all aspects of sport, including courses, numerous sports clubs, the Athletics Union and sport development activities. You can also take part in the national
BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport)
competitions.
We have also recently appointed Double Olympic Medallist, Bryan Steel, as the Head Coach for Team Derby Performance Sport Cycling. Bryan is a celebrated figure in the world of cycling, bringing a wealth of experience to his role. The decorated Olympian, who represented Team GB at four Olympic Games from 1992 to 2004, boasts an impressive medal collection. His crowning achievements include a bronze medal in the team pursuit event at the 2000 Sydney Olympics and a silver medal at the 2004 Athens Games in the same discipline. Brian's journey also includes 14 World Championship appearances, where he secured five medals, along with three medals at the Commonwealth Games. With the arrival of Bryan, Performance Sport at the university will work in partnership with HUUB-BCC Race Team to give track and road riders access to an elite pathway during and post higher education. This collaboration opens doors for Team Derby Performance Cycling's athletes, offering a unique opportunity to bridge their academic pursuits with professional cycling aspirations.
View Sport at Derby video transcript
Managing Excellence
When Mark Faghy first arrived in Derby as a teenage undergraduate, he stated proudly that his goal was to become manager of the England football team. Now he is a respected research academic leading an international collaboration in the fight against Covid. And his students are helping.
Read Mark's story
Read Mark's story
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You’ll learn through traditional lectures, seminars, and tutorial frameworks, combined with on-the-job learning in work placement opportunities, field based sessions, and assessments through DCFC and other professional sport organisations. You’ll benefit from international guest lecturers via online communication, UK-based guest lectures, independent study, group consultancy work for industry and ongoing professional development activities.
Areas of study include:
Marketing, Media and PR
: Attend a live press conference at DCFC, with the eyes of the international media and national journalists in attendance, plus you’ll learn how press releases and social media campaigns are created and sent out to the public
Sport Sponsorship:
From selling stadium naming rights to commercial partnerships for billboard branding, you will learn and experience first-hand about the number one form of income generation in sport – sponsorship
Event Management:
From working on a match day supporting the DCFC staff to help 30,000 people enjoy the game, to working as part of the event team to deliver the Derby half marathon with Sporting Futures or setting up the stage for the National Badminton League for its live match on BT Sports.  Event management is a key role in sport and you will be at the heart of it in Derby
Hospitality Management
: Be involved with and help plan the commercial hospitality that happens within the club, such as functions, events, and match day catering
Ticketing
: DCFC use a unique ticketing system that works out the price of a ticket based on the opposition, time of year, pre-season ticket sales, season ticket sales and the day of the week. The price of the ticket will change as the date of the fixture draws closer and you’ll learn about how and why this system is in place
Research and presentations
: Students will get the opportunity to work on real-life consultancy and research projects on behalf of DCFC. More importantly, rather than presenting back to the lecturer you’ll get the opportunity to sit in the DCFC board room and present face to face to the club’s senior management team
How you're assessed
You will be assessed using a range of methods, including coursework, exams, group work, online discussions, presentations, and case studies. Regular feedback is provided to support assessments and develop a greater understanding of what you need to work in the sports industry.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Lee Pridmore
Programme Leader
Lee Pridmore
Lee is the leader of the BA (Hons) Sport Management programme. He has over 15 years experience of leading modules, programmes and other roles in the discipline area of sport at the University of Derby.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
If you're an international student and want to improve your English language skills before you start your course, the Derby English Language Centre's
pre-sessional English course
can help you.
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
For September 2025
Membership of CMI and registration for Level 5 Diploma (Once studying the BSc (Hons) Sport Management course)
To welcome you to our team, you'll receive a University of Derby, Sport and Exercise Science T-shirt
If a DBS check is needed for the purposes of a module or programme related work placement, this is included in your fee. If done via the University we will contribute to or pay the full cost of additional qualifications which are arranged by us
For other additional qualifications you're interested in, we may contribute to or fund these but this is at the School of Sport and Exercise Science's discretion
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
If not already owned, formal business attire is required for your placements - approximate cost is between £50-£200
Travel to/from mandatory placement (Derby County FC, Pride Park stadium). The cost of travel varies depending on method of transport and starting location
Optional costs not included in your fees
Lots of e-books are available for free through the University Library, however you may wish to purchase a hard copy of these at your own expense
You may wish to undertake additional qualifications as part of your studies, costs will vary depending on your choice
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Recent years have seen a dramatic growth in the behind-the-scenes business operations of sport – and with it has come an urgent need for forward-thinking and capable management professionals.
As a BA (Hons) Sport Management graduate, you can advance to a wide range of roles within the sector – such as marketing executive, facility manager, social media manager, commercial sponsorship manager or sport event manager.
The impressive skillset you develop on this course will also prove invaluable for business management careers in broader fields, including the live events industry where the popularity of concerts and festivals continues to escalate.
You could also consider progressing to postgraduate study or teacher training with a focus on sport or business.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Sport Management BA (Hons)
Graduates working at Derby County Football Club
We hear from five Sport Management graduates whose placements were just the start of their time at DCFC.
Find out how the course was a game changer for their careers
Find out how the course was a game changer for their careers