Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/sport-exercise-science-courses/sports-nutrition-health-bsc-hons-foundation/

Sports Nutrition and Health with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)  - Sport and Exercise Science - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Sport and Exercise Science
Sports Nutrition and Health with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Sports Nutrition and Health with Foundation Year
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
C691
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
The best bits
Gather skills and knowledge by research informed, contemporary and safe practices to improve performance, health and wellbeing
Through our extensive industry connections, gain practical experience in work settings at every level of the course with a variety of patient groups and individuals
Graduate with the skills to specialise in sports nutrition and health and work with elite athletes or general members of the public to improve their health and fitness
Choose an innovative programme with a distinctive multidisciplinary approach
Be taught by academics who are active in research and focus on cutting-edge research techniques
Tailor your studies to your interests and career goals
The health and fitness industry has already seen significant growth over the last decade and is expected to grow by a further 11.6% between 2022-2027. The NHS has also announced plans to prescribe lifestyle interventions  to patients in a bid to help tackle the rises in non-communicable diseases we have witnessed over the last half a century or more. By joining this course, you can make a positive impact on peoples’ health and wellbeing, as well as improving the quality of patient care for current and future generations of sportspeople and/or members of the public.
Sports Nutrition and Health at Derby
To meet the growing local and global demands for Sports Nutrition and Health experts, this course takes a multidisciplinary approach exploring the psychology, physiology and biochemistry theories of nutrition. To be successful in your career, whether you are interested in working with amateur or elite athletes or health and community-based environments, it is vital that you have an understanding of human psychology, disease, training, physical activity, and health. If you are keen to work in the sport performance sector, it is important to understand how nutrition plays a key role in how well an athlete performs, recovers, or adapts to their training, and how such principles are adaptable to optimising health.
As well as the theoretical teaching, we also integrate qualifications and unique work placements to our teaching. This allows you to work alongside academics and health professionals with a wide range of expertise to ensure that you develop the skills in all areas of health and performance improvement employers are looking for. Through our industry-informed programmes we have built links with many key employers, enabling students to undertake work experience with organisations like Derbyshire County Cricket Club, Derby County Football Club, Burton Albion Football Club, Leicester City Football Club, Leicester Tigers Rugby Club, Derbyshire Institute for Sport, Derventio Excel Swimming Squad and Derby Centre of Excellence for Ladies Football amongst others.
During your studies, we will also enhance your interpersonal and communication skills which are essential when working with members of the public. We will also teach you how to work independently and in a group, manage budgets, analyse and interpret data and solve problems, so you will graduate feeling confident in your abilities to speak with and advise different audiences.
The course content is mapped to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals to ensure graduates are equipped with skills and knowledge to solve tomorrow’s problems. By the end of your degree, you will have an understanding of:
•    human responses and adaptations to sport and exercise
•    the performance of sport and exercise and its enhancement, monitoring and analysis
•    health-related and disease management aspects of exercise and physical activity
•    historical, social, political, economic and cultural diffusion, distribution and impact of sport
•    policy, planning, management and delivery of sporting opportunities
This course has been designed and developed in collaboration with Derby City Council to provide you with the holistic skills you need for a career in all aspects of health and exercise promotion.
Learn in an industry led environment
Using the latest specialist equipment, you’ll get involved in nutritional and physiology testing, cardiometabolic health assessments, and psychology-based studies relating to physical activity and exercise.
We offer you the opportunity to complete your Level 2 gym instructor qualification and level 3 personal training qualification. Upon completion of your level 3 qualification, from a further training perspective, you could pursue a level 4 Advanced Personal Training qualification. Following the completion of your level 4 qualification, you could apply to become a BASES Certified Exercise Practitioner. You could also apply to become an Accredited Sport and Exercise Scientist via the BASES Supervised Experience (SE) programme and eventually apply to become a Chartered Scientist.
You will also have the opportunity to gain your Level 2 Food Hygiene Certificate. In addition to these qualifications, you will be expected to complete the UK Anti Doping Introduction to Clean Sport course or similar UKAD course. Alongside your degree, these additional qualifications and courses will help stand you in the best position to secure work experience, internships, and employment opportunities.
Internships are available and provide you with hands-on, applied, real-world experience. These opportunities vary year on year, but most often arise with local community health initiatives, local sports clubs, Team Derby (the University’s performance sport programme), or our very own
Human Performance Unit
.
You will also learn from industry experts through guest lecturers which tend to focus on potential careers, what those careers are like, and the path taken to achieve them. These sessions are rich with information, insight, knowledge, reality and a prime opportunity for you to network and start to gain outside contacts for sourcing advice and future opportunities.
Expert staff
You'll be taught by a range of staff who have extensive knowledge in nutrition and health including:
Dr Corinna Chidley
(Programme Leader): Corinna spent several years working in the elite sports industry and brings a wealth of applied experience into the classroom. She also undertakes regular applied nutrition work through the University's Human Performance Unit helping athletes reach their performance goals. Her research is predominantly focused on the relationship between sport and exercise and immune function.
Dr Stuart Mourton
: Stuart is a professional member of BASES. He also undertakes research in the area of motor control, skill acquisition and cognitive functioning. Outside of his roles at the University, he volunteers with Special Olympics and works with the SO West Midlands ski group.
Dr Clare Roscoe
: Clare is passionate about the physical activity levels of both children and adults. Her research interests are predominantly based on physical activity levels and fundamental movement skills in British preschool children. She has previously been involved with the 'Derby A City on the Move' project, which was funded by Sport England and aimed to encourage inactive people in Derby to take part in sport.
Dr Andy Pringle
: Andy has over 25 years of experience working in Higher Education and five years of experience working in the NHS as a health promotion specialist. Andy is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Public Health and a NICE Guidelines Implementation Expert. He has led a number of national evaluations of multi-site physical activity programmes including those for the Premier League, Department of Health and Sport England.
Dr Joel Chidley
: Joel has a great depth of knowledge in a range of outdoor sports and activities which he brings to the classroom. He has two key interests which are physical activity behaviour, from a health perspective, and adventure sport performance.
Influential research
Many of our staff are actively involved in research, undertaking influential studies that are breaking new ground in their discipline including topics such as:
Nutrition and metabolism
Respiratory systems
Balance control
Measuring physical activity in preschool children
Covid recovery
Inequality in physical activity
Dr Mark Faghy
, Senior Lecturer in Exercise Physiology, is part of the
American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) Exercise Is Medicine
committee. This partnership will enable you to engage with other students and academics from affiliated institutions around the world and brings to life teaching, knowledge exchange and research opportunities that are promoted through the ACSM.
Sport and Exercise Science - your questions answered
In the below video, Head of School for Sport and Exercise Science, Andy Hooton, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Sport and Exercise Science at the University of Derby.
View Sport and Exercise Science - your questions answered! video transcript
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Specialist facilities
Our £10.8m Sports Centre includes a main hall, fitness gym with strength and conditioning area, studios, squash and badminton courts, an internal climbing wall, sprint track, changing rooms, treatment rooms and a café. It complements our existing facilities such as floodlit all-weather pitches and tennis courts.
We have invested in cutting-edge facilities. You will hone your skills in a well-equipped sport and exercise facility and measure the parameters of health and fitness. In addition, we use a range of computer software packages for statistical analysis.
You’ll also be well catered for if you want to take part in recreational sport – whether new to you or as an elite performer. We have a new 44-station fitness facility at our Kedleston Road site, equipped with up-to-the-minute Technogym and Wellness system technology.
Our Performance Suite
Our Performance Suite allows Sport and Exercise Science students to learn about performance analysis, biomechanics, strength and conditioning, and injury prevention. As well as elite athletes outside of the University, you'll also be working with our Team Derby athletes to help them improve their performance and successfully compete. Take a look at the Performance Suite and Vicon cameras in action:
View Open Day Live - Performance Suite video transcript
Sports Scholarships
The University of Derby is a sporting hub for talented athletes and coaches. We have a track record of improving the performance of our
University sports clubs
and we have created an infrastructure to provide support for talented athletes. We offer a
Sports Scholarship
programme that aims to help talented student-athletes realise their sporting potential while supporting them through their academic studies. We offer scholarships of up to £6,000 and provide tailored athlete-support packages delivered by an experienced multi-disciplinary Performance Sport team.
Join Team Derby
If you enjoy a challenge and would like to make the most of your own sporting passion and prowess, you could become involved with
Team Derby
which is the focal point for the University’s sporting community. It encompasses all aspects of sport, including courses, numerous sports clubs, the Athletics Union and sport development activities. You can also take part in the national
BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport)
competitions.
We have also recently appointed Double Olympic Medallist, Bryan Steel, as the Head Coach for Team Derby Performance Sport Cycling. Bryan is a celebrated figure in the world of cycling, bringing a wealth of experience to his role. The decorated Olympian, who represented Team GB at four Olympic Games from 1992 to 2004, boasts an impressive medal collection. His crowning achievements include a bronze medal in the team pursuit event at the 2000 Sydney Olympics and a silver medal at the 2004 Athens Games in the same discipline. Brian's journey also includes 14 World Championship appearances, where he secured five medals, along with three medals at the Commonwealth Games. With the arrival of Bryan, Performance Sport at the university will work in partnership with HUUB-BCC Race Team to give track and road riders access to an elite pathway during and post higher education. This collaboration opens doors for Team Derby Performance Cycling's athletes, offering a unique opportunity to bridge their academic pursuits with professional cycling aspirations.
View Sport at Derby video transcript
Managing Excellence
When Mark Faghy first arrived in Derby as a teenage undergraduate, he stated proudly that his goal was to become manager of the England football team. Now he is a respected research academic leading an international collaboration in the fight against Covid. And his students are helping.
Read Mark's story
Read Mark's story
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You'll learn through a variety of lectures, seminars, practicals, and technology enhanced innovative learning solutions. You'll be involved in physiology testing, psychology-based case studies, and develop cardiometabolic health assessment techniques. In addition, you will also acquire essential work-based skills, experience, and knowledge through regular work placements.
Assessment
You will be assessed using not only coursework and exams, but also practical activities which may be classroom, or lab based. Coursework and practical assessment modes typically include:
Individual and group oral (e.g. PowerPoint) presentations
Poster presentations
Infographics
Case studies
Essays
Videos or social media reels
Vivas
Laboratory based assessments
Use of statistical computer software
Independent dissertation research reports
Combinations of assessment modes
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Corinna  Chidley
Programme Leader
Dr Corinna  Chidley
As a lecturer in sport and exercise nutrition, Dr Chidley leads and delivers modules across programmes within the School of Outdoor and Exercise Science.  Dr Chidley has extensive experience working in elite sport as a performance...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at L2 as part of your course of study.
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
If you're an international student and want to improve your English language skills before you start your course, the Derby English Language Centre's
pre-sessional English course
can help you.
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
We fully fund the undertaking of Level 2 Gym Instructor and Level 3 Personal Trainer Awards qualifications. We will contribute to, or pay the full cost of, other additional qualifications which are arranged by us. For other additional qualifications you are interested in, we may contribute to or fund these too but this is at the School of Sport and Exercise's discretion
To welcome you to our team, you'll receive a University of Derby t-shirt
If a DBS check is needed for the purposes of a module or programme related work placement, this is included in your fee if done via the University
Fieldtrips offered as part of the programme will be fully funded, or heavily subsidised
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
If not already owned, appropriate clothing for practical sessions such as tracksuit bottoms and trainers - approximate cost is £50-£100
Travel to placements, mainly Derby locations, but some of our students have travelled to Manchester and Sheffield - costs vary depending on your placement venue of choice
Optional costs not included in your fees
Lots of e-books are available for free through the University Library, however you may wish to purchase a hard copy of these at your own expense
You may wish to undertake additional qualifications as part of your studies, costs will vary depending on your choice
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Our BSc (Hons) Sports Nutrition and Health course is designed to make you highly employable. You will graduate with the applied experience, knowledge and professionalism you need for a variety of careers related to performance nutrition, public health nutrition, community development, nutrition and healthy eating promotion, health improvement, exercise referral and lifestyle management. Along with your subject-specific knowledge, you’ll graduate with a wide range of transferable skills – such as communication, problem-solving, research and presentation skills – which will stand you in good stead wherever your career takes you.
You could secure employment with a wide range of organisations including sports clubs, community trusts, NHS, local councils and public health agencies. With postgraduate teacher training, there are opportunities to go into educational careers too.
You could also consider taking your qualifications to the next level. We offer the
MSc Clinical Exercise Science
and
MSc Applied Sport and Exercise Science
– which includes a Sport and Exercise Psychology pathway – where you will develop advanced knowledge in your chosen subject. Both these postgraduate courses offer you the chance to develop teaching abilities and the knowledge which could pave the way to study at PhD level.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Sports Nutrition and Health BSc (Hons)