Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/sport-exercise-science-courses/sport-and-exercise-science-bsc-hons-foundation/

Sport and Exercise Science with Foundation Year BSc (Hons) - Sport and Exercise Science - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Sport and Exercise Science
Sport and Exercise Science with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Sport and Exercise Science with Foundation Year
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
C604
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Our foundation year will help you hit the ground running if you want to gain a respected honours degree in Sport and Exercise Science.
Choose a four-year course featuring a foundation year for a strong start to your University of Derby studies
Fulfil your ambition and potential: the foundation year is a smart move if you are planning a career change or are keen to explore a new subject area
Explore the roles of biomechanics, physiology and psychology in sport performance
Become skilled with the latest technology via our High Performance Resistance Training Facility, VICON 3D motion capture system and breath-by-breath analysis system
Gain vital experience by applying for placements or internships: our students have worked with organisations like Derby County FC, Derbyshire County Cricket Club and Burton Albion FC
Work alongside renowned sports scientists who are actively involved in research and consultancy
Take the opportunity to achieve extra professional qualifications such as National Governing Body coaching awards
This is a challenging and action-packed course for anyone with a keen interest in the science behind sport and exercise.
Sport and Exercise Science - your questions answered
In the below video, Head of School for Sport and Exercise Science, Andy Hooton, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Sport and Exercise Science at the University of Derby.
View Sport and Exercise Science - your questions answered! video transcript
100
%
of students agreed that staff are good at explaining things
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science - National Student Survey 2024
100
%
of students agreed that staff make the subject engaging
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science - National Student Survey 2024
97
%
of students agreed they were satisfied with the academic support
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science - National Student Survey 2024
Sport and Exercise Science at Derby
This exhilarating course deepens your understanding of the science behind sport and exercise, so you’ll investigate the roles of biomechanics, physiology and psychology in sport performance.
We place great emphasis on helping you realise your career potential. You can tailor your studies to match your career plans by selecting modules in specialist areas such as nutrition, performance analysis, and strength and conditioning. Masterclasses delivered by sport and exercise science professionals will also give you insights into the employment opportunities which lie ahead.
Practical scientific skills lie at the heart of this degree. When you graduate, you will be fully equipped to test and measure health and fitness, using the latest computer software to analyse performance results.
Expert teaching
For inspiration with your research, you need look no further than our own team of highly qualified, enthusiastic and forward-thinking sport and exercise science staff, for example,
Dr Mark Faghy
is accredited Clinical Physiologists with the
AHCS
and
RCCP
. The team also includes accredited professionals who are members of leading bodies like
BASES
,
NSCA
,
CIMSPA
,
The Physiological Society
and the
UK Strength and Conditioning Association
.
Dr Mark Faghy
, is also part of the
American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) Exercise Is Medicine
committee. This partnership will enable you to engage with other students and academics from affiliated institutions around the world and brings to life teaching, knowledge exchange and research opportunities that are promoted through the ACSM.
You will receive high-quality teaching and support from lecturers who are actively involved in research, high-performance sport and applied sport science consultancy.  They are pioneering wide-ranging research projects into topics such as performance profiling, injury rehabilitation, human balance control and neuromuscular fatigue.
Foundation Year - helping you to achieve more
Including a foundation year as part of your four-year study programme will give you a head start in your academic and professional life. The foundation year offers the chance to strengthen your skills, knowledge and confidence – with extensive support from our expert staff – before you advance to stage one of your honours degree. It could also be beneficial if you are planning a career change and want to get to grips with aspects of subjects which are new to you.
Our degrees with a foundation year are continuous, meaning that you won’t need to apply again once you have successfully completed the first year.
Industry experience
Having experience in the workplace makes a notable addition to your CV, so we support and encourage you to undertake placements and internships with sports clubs and other relevant employers.
Our students have broadened their professional perspectives on placements with the likes of Derby County FC, Leicester City FC, Burton Albion FC, Special Olympics, YouthSport Trust and Derbyshire County Cricket Club as well as local schools, hospitals and leisure centres.  Some have secured employment thanks to their impressive performances on placement.
Our
Sport and Exercise Internship Programme
offers another exciting route for you to gain real-world experience as you prepare for life after study.  You could apply for an internship supporting athletes at the local sports clubs which regularly approach us for assistance. Our students have performed key roles with organisations such as West Bromwich Albion FC and Team Derby.
Our growing links with sports organisations mean that, in future, we will be able to offer even more opportunities for you to boost your employability and build your professional networks in this way.
Specialist facilities
The multi-purpose
sports centre
includes a main hall, fitness gym with strength and conditioning area, studios, squash and badminton courts, an internal climbing wall, sprint track, changing rooms, treatment rooms and a café. It complements other facilities such as floodlit all-weather pitches and tennis courts.
As a Sport and Exercise Science student, you’ll also get to grips with the latest technology to test and measure the parameters of health and fitness in our biomechanics laboratory, harnessing a full range of computer software packages for statistical and movement analysis. In addition, we have a specialist suite for those following the strength and conditioning pathway, where you’ll discover some of the best lifting equipment available.
If you want to take part in recreational sport – whether new to you or as an elite performer – we have a 44-station fitness facility at our Kedleston Road site, equipped with Technogym and Wellness system technology.
Conduct your own research
One of the most important aspects of this course is the chance to undertake your own research into a sporting theme of your choice. Your independent study will take up a significant proportion of your final year and culminates in a one-day conference where you and your fellow students will present your findings.
Some of our students have even had the privilege to showcase their research work nationally at the annual BASES Student Conference. They have also secured coveted places on the University’s Undergraduate Research Scholarship Scheme (URSS) to carry out supervised research over the summer break. Such experiences will broaden your skillset and give you an insight not only into the value of sport research but also the career pathways it can open up. Nichola Davies, BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science with Foundation Year student, became interested in research after volunteering to be a participant in various research trials, this encouraged her to apply for research internships at the University.
Managing Excellence
When Mark Faghy first arrived in Derby as a teenage undergraduate, he stated proudly that his goal was to become manager of the England football team. Now he is a respected research academic leading an international collaboration in the fight against Covid. And his students are helping.
Read Mark's story
Read Mark's story
From foundation year to high-level research
Mature student Nichola Davis left school with few formal qualifications but is now taking part in funded research as part of her BSc after joining us for a Foundation Year.
Find out about Nichola's research experience
Find out about Nichola's research experience
Our Performance Suite
Our Performance Suite allows Sport and Exercise Science students to learn about performance analysis, biomechanics, strength and conditioning, and injury prevention. As well as elite athletes outside of the University, you'll also be working with our Team Derby athletes to help them improve their performance and successfully compete. Take a look at the Performance Suite and Vicon cameras in action:
View Open Day Live - Performance Suite video transcript
Enhance your CV
We offer you an exciting chance to gain additional professional qualifications to complement your honours degree studies and to build your confidence, communication and leadership skills.
Recognised and highly valued by employers, they include National Governing Body coaching awards and the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA) Higher Professional Diploma.
If you are interested, we can also prepare you for National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA) certification. We’re one of only four universities in the UK acting as an accredited centre for the association’s Certified Strength and Conditioning (CSCS) awards.
Sports Scholarships
The University of Derby is a sporting hub for talented athletes and coaches. We have a track record of improving the performance of our
University sports clubs
and we have created an infrastructure to provide support for talented athletes. We offer a
Sports Scholarship
programme that aims to help talented student-athletes realise their sporting potential while supporting them through their academic studies. We offer scholarships of up to £6,000 and provide tailored athlete-support packages delivered by an experienced multi-disciplinary Performance Sport team.
Join Team Derby
If you enjoy a challenge and would like to make the most of your own sporting passion and prowess, you could become involved with
Team Derby
which is the focal point for the University’s sporting community. It encompasses all aspects of sport, including courses, numerous sports clubs, the Athletics Union and sport development activities. You can also take part in the national
BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport)
competitions.
We have also recently appointed Double Olympic Medallist, Bryan Steel, as the Head Coach for Team Derby Performance Sport Cycling. Bryan is a celebrated figure in the world of cycling, bringing a wealth of experience to his role. The decorated Olympian, who represented Team GB at four Olympic Games from 1992 to 2004, boasts an impressive medal collection. His crowning achievements include a bronze medal in the team pursuit event at the 2000 Sydney Olympics and a silver medal at the 2004 Athens Games in the same discipline. Brian's journey also includes 14 World Championship appearances, where he secured five medals, along with three medals at the Commonwealth Games. With the arrival of Bryan, Performance Sport at the university will work in partnership with HUUB-BCC Race Team to give track and road riders access to an elite pathway during and post higher education. This collaboration opens doors for Team Derby Performance Cycling's athletes, offering a unique opportunity to bridge their academic pursuits with professional cycling aspirations.
View Sport at Derby video transcript
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
You’ll study the core science subjects of physiology, psychology and biomechanics, and have the opportunity to choose from specialised areas such as nutrition, performance analysis and strength and conditioning. This will enable you to follow your interests and tailor the course to your career aspirations.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
We take pride in the teaching and learning experience of our students. You’ll learn through lectures, practicals, and seminars, all of which take place at our Kedleston Road site.
Assessment
We have received particular praise from external reviewers on our innovative use of practical assessments, which take place in our new specialised facilities. These are carried out alongside written coursework, verbal presentations, and examination-style assessments to create a well-balanced assessment portfolio.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Mark Newman
Programme Leader
Mark Newman
As a Senior Lecturer in Sport Therapy and Rehabilitation, Mark Newman is involved in teaching across a range of modules on the programme, delivering theoretical and practical sessions in line with the requirements of the Society of Spo...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
If you're an international student and want to improve your English language skills before you start your course, the Derby English Language Centre's
pre-sessional English course
can help you.
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
To welcome you to our team, you'll receive a University of Derby, Sport and Exercise Science t-shirt
If a DBS check is needed for the purposes of a module or programme related work placement, this is included in your fee if done via the University
You will also receive British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (BASES) student membership for the duration of your studies
Whole day fieldtrips to relevant Sport and Exercise Science events/organisations are also included and we will contribute to, or pay the full cost of, additional qualifications which are arranged by us. For other additional qualifications that you're interested in, we may contribute to or fund these but this is at the Sport department's discretion
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
If not already owned, appropriate clothing for practical sessions such as tracksuit bottoms and trainers - approximate cost is £50-£100
Travel to placements - cost varies depending on your placement venue of choice
Optional costs not included in your fees
Lots of e-books are available for free through the University Library, however you may wish to purchase a hard copy of these at your own expense
You may wish to undertake additional qualifications as part of your studies, costs will vary depending on your choice
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
As a Sport and Exercise Science graduate, you can look forward to a fulfilling career. Our recent graduates are now succeeding in roles such as sports coach, performance analyst, physiotherapy assistant, health advisor and cardiac physiologist assistant.
Alongside your subject-specific knowledge, you will graduate with high-level skills in communication, problem-solving, research and presentation to help set you apart in the competitive graduate job market.
If you’re interested in postgraduate study, you don’t have to leave Derby to realise your ambitions. We offer the
MSc Clinical Exercise Science
and
MSc Applied Sport and Exercise Science
– which includes a Performance Analysis pathway and a Sport and Exercise Psychology pathway – where you can develop advanced knowledge in your chosen subject.
Read about a few of our graduates who went on to secure successful jobs in their chosen fields:
Graduate, Gareth Richards, went on to work for Nottingham Forest Football Club as a Strength and Conditioning Coach
.
Graduate, Nicola Thorpe, went on to work for England Netball once she had graduated from the course.
"I am a Netball Development Officer covering Nottinghamshire and my main role is to encourage more people to play netball. I work closely with clubs, schools and other partners. This course definitely helped me to get the job and there are aspects that I learned on the course that I use in my day to day job."
Mark Faghy, who graduated with a First Class Honours degree, went on to study a PhD at the University.
"The applied nature of the course was something that was eye-catching on my visit to the University on an Open Day. From day one of the course this was apparent, with lots of practical sessions and hands-on work throughout a number of the modules on the course. As a person who learns by doing, these activities were fantastic for me in my development. The course and facilities were constantly developing and improving, allowing me to develop a broad set of skills that covered a number of key disciplines within sport science".
Graduate, Luke Jenkinson, started working at Sheffield United Football Club as a Strength and Conditioning Coach after graduating.
"I'm a
UKSCA
Accredited Strength and Conditioning Coach working at Sheffield United Football Club. I am responsible for the athletic development of players ranging from under-8's to under-21's. I also develop and implement athlete centred interdisciplinary strength and conditioning programmes that operate throughout the whole club in line with the philosophy."
Graduate, Calum Hayes, now works at Walsall FC, providing pre-match and post-match analysis, as well as individual player analysis.
"The physiology and the psychology captivated me and have provided me with a sound understanding from which to excel in a multi-disciplinary working environment. Coursework and deadlines mimic the real working world. The whole course is designed with an emphasis on gaining skills that are desirable and essential to prospective employers.
"
Through our Professional Development Package, you'll gain valuable transferable skills, including:
Written and verbal communication
Research and analytical
Personal motivation, organisation and self-reflection
Numeracy
IT literacy
Critical awareness
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Sport and Exercise Science BSc (Hons)