Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/sport-exercise-science-courses/sport-management-ba-hons/

Sport Management BA (Hons) - Sport and Exercise Science - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Sport and Exercise Science
Sport Management BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Sport Management
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years,  Part-time: 6 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
96
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
6G89
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
We offer an amazing overall student package that prepares you for an exciting career in all areas of Sport Management. You will stand out from the crowd. On this course you will:
Study a programme that's accredited by the
Chartered Management Institute (CMI
), and has recognised degree status awarded by the
Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM)
. We are the only Sport Management degree in the country to have dual industry CMI accreditation and CIM endorsement
You’ll gain guaranteed work placement hours at a professional Championship football club - Derby County FC
Alongside your degree you’ll gain a
L5 Diploma in Management and Leadership
from the CMI (subject to passing required components). There are no additional costs or assessments for this. We are the only Sport Management undergraduate degree in the country offering this
Our professional mentoring scheme will inspire and motivate you - you’ll have the opportunity to be supported by a CMI mentor during your degree
As this degree has recognised degree status by the CIM you gain exemptions from professional marketing qualifications too
Work related learning, live assessment briefs and topical case studies will give you plenty of applied experiences
Once you graduate you’ll be able to use the post-nominal letters FCMgr (Foundation Chartered Manager) after your name to show that you are on the pathway to Chartered Manager status
100
%
of students agreed they were satisfied with the academic support
BA (Hons) Sport Management - National Student Survey 2024
100
%
of students agreed staff were good at explaining things
BA (Hons) Sport Management - National Student Survey 2024
100
%
of students agreed that staff made the subject engaging
BA (Hons) Sport Management - National Student Survey 2024
Programme Accreditation
The Sport Management programme is accredited by the
CMI
which is dedicated to promoting excellence in management and leadership. Alongside your degree you will gain a CMI L5 Diploma in Management and Leadership (subject to passing required components). The CMI Diploma is the benchmark for full CMI membership and takes you a step towards Chartered Manager status, signalling to prospective employers that you’re equipped for senior sport and business management roles. There is no additional cost, and you won’t need to take extra exams or coursework to achieve this.
Throughout the degree you will have access to CMI networking events, online resources and additional benefits to support your career development and employability.
Recognised Degree Status
This programme is also a
CIM
recognised degree meaning that the marketing content of the course has been mapped against the CIMs unique professional marking competencies. Graduates will be able to demonstrate the high standards required by those working as a marketing professional in sport. You will gain exemptions from the CIM Certificate in Professional and Digital Marketing to advance your career.
Professional Mentoring
The CMI accreditation will open up an extensive network of professional contacts within sport and business management for you. You’ll have the opportunity to be supported by a CMI mentor during your degree.
Your mentor will be a Chartered Manager or Fellow of the CMI with a wealth of insight and management experience to share with you. They will advise and support you, showing how sport and business management principles can be applied directly in the workplace.
Guaranteed Work Placement
You are guaranteed work placement hours at our professional Championship football club Derby County during your degree. You’ll take learning from the classroom and put it straight into practice in the workplace. We will also visit you during your placement to ensure that you are supported throughout the process.
In the first year you’ll experience working in all departments of the football club including marketing, commercial, ticketing and community. You’ll also receive an induction in the Boardroom including talks from senior managers, a behind the scenes tour, a free ticket to a Championship fixture and have a chance to win VIP prizes.
In the second year you'll progress to matchday placements working in marketing/events, ticketing, crowd/safety management, hospitality and partnerships and the community trust. You'll also receive a tour of the outstanding training centre at Moor Farm to learn about how it is managed.
In the final year you'll receive guest lectures from senior managers at Derby County, an onsite assessment centre at the stadium and an Executive Box experience for a Championship fixture.
The University is also the main shirt sponsor of Derby County Women FC.
Expert Teaching
You will be taught by a highly qualified and experienced team with an impressive track record for teaching, research and broad industry-based experience. Programme Leader,
Lee Pridmore
, is a
CMI
Chartered Manager, which is a stand out achievement and shows his dedication to making a positive impact to the future of his students. The team also has extensive contacts in the sport management industry, and you will be able to network with those connections to support your learning and development.
Unique Learning Experiences
Your learning will be enriched by a range of unique learning experiences at every stage of the degree. You’ll plan a Play on the Pitch event at Derby County in the first year with the opportunity to win a VIP matchday experience for your group. You'll present your proposals in the Boardroom at the club.
In the second year you’ll be involved in the planning and delivery of the Derby 10km and produce a Sport England project proposal for Sporting Communities.
In the final year you will work with other students to plan your own sport event. You'll have access to venues such as ‘The Yard’ at Derby County and Mickleover FC. There will also be an opportunity to work on a live assessment brief with Pastures Golf Course or Derby Rugby Club. You'll present your findings to your chosen organisation.
Relationship with Derby County is key for Jade
Our close relationship with Derby County was key to Jade Shilton choosing to study with us. And our links with the football club have boosted her academic and career progression.
Find out more about Jade's story
Find out more about Jade's story
"The three years that I spent studying this course were amazing. After graduating, I started my first full-time job as a Racing Sales Executive with Uttoxeter Racecourse, as I had already completed a placement there during my studies. I now work for Porsche Club GB as a Digital Executive and I’m responsible for all social content for their events. I always knew I wanted to work in motorsports but without this course, I would never have been able to achieve it."
Becky Tarling, Sport Management Graduate
Sport and Exercise Science - your questions answered
In the below video, Head of School for Sport and Exercise Science, Andy Hooton, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Sport and Exercise Science at the University of Derby.
View Sport and Exercise Science - your questions answered! video transcript
Sports Scholarships
The University of Derby is a sporting hub for talented athletes and coaches. We have a track record of improving the performance of our
University sports clubs
and we have created an infrastructure to provide support for talented athletes. We offer a  programme that aims to help talented student-athletes realise their sporting potential while supporting them through their academic studies. We offer scholarships of up to £6,000 and provide tailored athlete-support packages delivered by an experienced multi-disciplinary Performance Sport team. Two of the Universities most recent successful sports scholars are Charlie Tanfield (World Champion and Commonwealth Cycling gold medallist) and Jack Burnell (European Open Water silver medallist 2016 and Olympian 2016).
Join Team Derby
If you enjoy a challenge and would like to make the most of your own sporting passion and prowess, you could become involved with  which is the focal point for the University’s sporting community. It encompasses all aspects of sport, including courses, numerous sports clubs, the Athletics Union and sport development activities. You can also take part in the national
BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport)
competitions.
We have also recently appointed Double Olympic Medallist, Bryan Steel, as the Head Coach for Team Derby Performance Sport Cycling. Bryan is a celebrated figure in the world of cycling, bringing a wealth of experience to his role. The decorated Olympian, who represented Team GB at four Olympic Games from 1992 to 2004, boasts an impressive medal collection. His crowning achievements include a bronze medal in the team pursuit event at the 2000 Sydney Olympics and a silver medal at the 2004 Athens Games in the same discipline. Brian's journey also includes 14 World Championship appearances, where he secured five medals, along with three medals at the Commonwealth Games. With the arrival of Bryan, Performance Sport at the university will work in partnership with HUUB-BCC Race Team to give track and road riders access to an elite pathway during and post higher education. This collaboration opens doors for Team Derby Performance Cycling's athletes, offering a unique opportunity to bridge their academic pursuits with professional cycling aspirations.
View Sport at Derby video transcript
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Learning in the classroom
Our teaching methods are varied, interactive and engaging. You'll take part in:
Formal lectures
Tutor-led and student led seminars
One to one and small group tutorials
Live assessment briefs
Self-directed study
Optional internship opportunities
Learning in the workplace
Areas of work experience at sporting organisations such as Derby County FC includes:
Marketing, Media and PR:
You'll work as part of live sport events for Derby County with the eyes of the media in attendance. You’ll learn how press releases and social media campaigns are created and sent out to the public whilst working alongside marketing professionals
Sport Sponsorship:
From selling stadium naming rights to commercial partnerships, you’ll learn and experience first-hand the number one form of income generation in sport – sponsorship
Event Management:
You'll work on matchdays supporting Derby County staff to help 30,000 spectators to enjoy the game safely. You’ll also work as part of the community department organising and delivering the Derby 10km. Event management is a key role in sport, and you'll be at the heart of it here in Derby
Talent Management:
Professional athletic careers are short-lived, and the role of a sport management team and agents is essential in guiding the pathways to success. Learn first-hand the role a sport agent plays in working on areas such as player contracts, negotiation, endorsements and networking
Ticketing and Data Management:
Learn how Derby County use a unique ticketing system that determines the price of a ticket based on the opposition, time of year, pre-season ticket sales, season ticket sales and the day of the week. You’ll learn about the system and how data management underpins all aspects of the club’s operations
Research and Presentations:
Students will get the opportunity to work on real-world projects on behalf of Derby County. More importantly, rather than presenting to your tutor you’ll get the opportunity to sit in the Boardroom at the club and present your findings to the senior executives at the club
We also have a diverse range of guest speakers to inspire you and share their stories. Previously we have had Stephen Pearce (Derby County CEO), Simon Carnall (Derby County COO), Darryl Eales (Solihull Moors FC), Dr. Cham Kang (Managing Director Qinesis) and Don Amott (Leisure Business Owner & University of Derby Honorand).
Industrial Placement Year
You can choose to take a placement year between year two and three of your degree, which can enhance your employability and improve your prospects post-graduation. We can help you find a placement and provide support during your year in industry. One example was a student who completed a placement year at Adidas, completed their studies and returned to the company full-time on graduation.
Charlene Sharp, BA (Hons) Sport Management graduate
How you're assessed
Our assessment strategy has been informed by employers, the CMI and the CIM. We assess you on the sort of tasks that you might undertake in the workplace. There are therefore no formal examinations on the programme. We sometimes assess you as an individual and at other times you will be working as part of a group. Your assignments could include:
Business reports
Presentations including sales pitches
Research projects
Live assessment briefs
Design of digital materials including websites, videos and/or blogs
Computer based assessments
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Lee Pridmore
Programme Leader
Lee Pridmore
Lee is the leader of the BA (Hons) Sport Management programme. He has over 15 years experience of leading modules, programmes and other roles in the discipline area of sport at the University of Derby.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
96
A Level
CCC
T Level
Pass (C and above)
BTEC
MMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
If you're an international student and want to improve your English language skills before you start your course, the Derby English Language Centre's
pre-sessional English course
can help you.
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Membership of CMI and registration for Level 5 Diploma
To welcome you to our team, you all receive a University of Derby, Sport and Exercise Science T-shirt
If a DBS check is needed for the purposes of a module or programme related work placement, this is included in your fee if completed via the University
We will contribute to or pay the full cost of additional qualifications that are arranged by us (e.g. you will have option of gaining a L3 CIM Certificate in Professional Marketing or Professional Digital Marketing). For other additional qualifications you are interested in, we may contribute to or fund these but this is at the School of Sport and Exercise Science's discretion
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
If not already owned, formal business attire is required for your placements - approximate cost is between £50-£200
Travel to/from mandatory placement (Derby County FC, Pride Park stadium). The cost of travel varies depending on method of transport and starting location
Optional costs not included in your fees
Lots of e-books are available for free through the University Library, however you may wish to purchase a hard copy of these at your own expense
You may wish to undertake additional qualifications as part of your studies, costs will vary depending on your choice
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Your qualifications and experience will equip you for a rewarding career in sport and/or business management. They will also identify you as having the potential for promotion to senior management positions and as someone who can work to high ethical standards. Careers include marketing, media, finance, human resource management, sport sponsorship, event management, ticketing, and data management.
Former graduates of the programme have gone on to work at a range of sport organisations including Football League Clubs, Adidas, Porsche and Gulliver’s Sport Travels for example. Others have become business consultants, sport development officers, teachers/education managers or event organisers. Some even plan to work in sport management overseas including the NFL, NBA or MLB. Some students go on to use the entrepreneurial skills gained during their degree to set up their own business.
Graduates working at Derby County Football Club
We hear from five Sport Management graduates whose placements were just the start of their time at DCFC.
Find out how the course was a game changer for their careers
Find out how the course was a game changer for their careers
Managing Excellence
When Mark Faghy first arrived in Derby as a teenage undergraduate, he stated proudly that his goal was to become manager of the England football team. Now he is a respected research academic leading an international collaboration in the fight against Covid. And his students are helping.
Read Mark's story
Read Mark's story
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Sport Management with Foundation Year BA (Hons)