Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/joint-honours-courses/criminology-and-sport-studies-ba-bsc-hons/

Criminology and Sport Studies BA/BSc (Hons) - Joint Honours - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Joint Honours
Criminology and Sport Studies BA/BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Sport Studies and Criminology
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
120
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
MC26
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
What are the consequences of crime? How are criminals managed and controlled? How can athletic performance be enhanced through Sport Psychology? Explore human behaviour from the criminal mind to high performance sport.
Our teaching team are research active, so your studies will be underpinned by developing knowledge of criminal behaviour, offending and rehabilitation, sports psychology and sport coaching.
Expert Teaching
Your Sport Studies modules will be taught by experts who are specialists in their chosen field. This includes accredited Sport Psychologists, Physiologists and Strength and Conditioning experts who bring their professional experience into the classroom. Our Criminology teaching team is made up of lecturers from a wide range of backgrounds including probation, policing, law, mental health and academia. Our lecturers engage with organisations in the local community, nationally, and around the world – many of them publish in journals and textbooks.
Bringing your subject to life
During the course you’ll will undertake practical work in our outstanding sport facilities. Our physiology laboratory contains the latest equipment for testing and measuring fitness for both participation and performance sport. You’ll will also use a range of computer software packages for performance and statistical analysis.
You’ll have the opportunity to bring the subject to life through our industry links, thanks to our strong relationships with sport and exercise professionals, the police, probation service, and prisons.
Choose your pathway
Studying a Sport Studies and Criminology Joint Honours degree allows you to choose whether you major in one subject or study them both equally.
You begin the degree by studying both subjects equally in your first year. By the end of your first year, you will then decide whether you would like to major or minor in a chosen subject or continue to study them both equally.
BSc (Hons) Sport Studies and Criminology
In this pathway you study Sport Studies and Criminology equally.
BSc (Hons) Sport Studies with Criminology
In this combination Sport Studies is the major subject and Criminology is the minor subject.
BSc (Hons) Criminology with Sport Studies
In this combination Criminology is the major subject and Sport Studies is the minor subject.
What is a Joint Honours degree?
A Joint Honours degree offers students the opportunity to study two subjects.
A Joint Honours degree is a great option if:
You want to study two subjects you’re passionate about
You’ve got a specific career in mind and want to create a tailored degree to prepare you for the future
You want to study a new subject alongside one you’re already familiar with
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
The modules below indicate the range of modules you may study as part of this combination, however prescribed and optional modules will vary depending on whether you choose to study both subjects equally, or choose to major or minor in a subject. To find out exactly which modules you would study as part of your chosen combination please contact
jhs@derby.ac.uk
.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
On your Criminology modules you’ll learn through a combination of:
lectures
tutorials
group work
independent learning
On your Sport Studies modules you’ll learn in a variety of different ways including formal lectures, discussion led seminars, practical demonstrations and other technology-based innovations. There will also be opportunities to get involved in applied case studies, role playing scenarios, coaching sessions and community-based work. You’ll be assessed on your theoretical knowledge and your ability to apply this in practice. Our practice-based learning takes place in our specialised Sport and Exercise facilities.
Learning from both industry experts and peers on your course, you’ll work on both individual and group-based assessments with students from across the world. You’ll also have the opportunity to work on real world and live assessment briefs with external organisations for example, you may be asked to present new ideas for the development or enhancement of external projects to employers.
How you are assessed
Your Criminology assessment is via a stimulating mix of:
coursework
portfolios
individual and group projects/presentations
examinations
On your Sport Studies modules you’ll be assessed via a range of different methods. This includes:
written reports
oral presentations
practical demonstrations
examinations
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
120
A Level
BBB
T Level
Merit in Science
BTEC
DDM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 21, Merit: 24, Pass: 0. Must include passes in compulsory Level 3 subjects
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
To welcome you to our team, you’ll receive a University of Derby, Sport and Exercise T-Shirt.
If a DBS check is needed for the purposes of a module or programme related work placement, this is included in your fee if completed via the University.
For additional qualifications you are interested in, we may contribute to or fund these, but it is at the Sport and Exercise Science team’s discretion.
Optional costs not included in your fees
Recommended books – costs will vary depending on your choices.
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Criminology graduates are well suited to a range of roles in fields such as policing, Crown Prosecution Service, courts, probation and prison services, youth offending teams, law enforcement agencies, social research, public sector management or victim services.
Graduates in the School of Sport and Exercise Science have secured jobs in performance and participation sport. Some work for commercial sport organisations whilst others work at the community level. Outside of this, some graduates work in the National Health Service to support rehabilitation, recovery and fitness whilst others have become teachers at primary or secondary school level.
Further career destinations include the armed services, the police force, personal trainer or lifestyle coach.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
You will typically study your two subjects equally at stage one, before choosing whether you want to major in one subject at stages two and three.
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Criminology BSc (Hons)
Sport and Exercise Science BSc (Hons)
Psychology and Sport Studies BSc (Hons)
Sport and Education BA (Hons)
Performance Analysis and Coaching Science BSc (Hons)