Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/mechanical-manufacturing-engineering-courses/strategic-engineering-management-msc/

Strategic Engineering Management MSc - Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Strategic Engineering Management MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Strategic Engineering Management
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2-3 years
UK fee
£9,000 for the full course or £1,000 per 20 credits*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, January
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
Gain the modern tools and techniques you need to manage 21st-century engineering and manufacturing organisations. Our MSc Strategic Engineering Management will equip you to make a significant contribution to a company’s performance and productivity.
The accredited MSc will meet, in part, the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer. Accredited MSc graduates who also have a BEng (Hons) accredited for CEng will be able to show that they have satisfied the educational base for CEng registration
This programme has currently been accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE)
Prepare for management and leadership roles, especially in the engineering, manufacturing, and supply chain fields
Tailor your studies to match your needs, whether you are an experienced engineering professional looking to move into management or a recent graduate exploring your career options
Draw on our close links with local industries and professional bodies which ensure our teaching is both contemporary and relevant
Keep up to date with the latest thinking in areas ranging from advanced manufacturing technologies and computer simulation to enterprise resource planning and supply chain management
Benefit from a variety of teaching methods which give you the flexibility to study at a time and place most suitable for you
Academically rigorous and completely related to practice, our MSc is specially designed for engineering and science graduates – and other professionals with relevant backgrounds – who aspire to management positions irrespective of their specialisation. It is also ideal for recent graduates as it broadens their career scope.
This course enables students to strengthen their leadership skills and team-leading experience coupled with their background knowledge. It gave me the confidence to apply for senior jobs that required a management skillset in addition to technical expertise.
Vishwanath Biradar
Lead Design Engineer
Student feedback - Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
100
%
overall satisfaction
100
%
of students agreed that staff are good at explaining things
100
%
of students agreed that staff are enthusiastic about what they teach
100
%
of students were happy with the learning support received from staff
100
%
of students agreed that their research skills have developed during the course
This course has helped me use my abilities and industry background to take the business and myself forward. It has given me the confidence that my practical expertise is supported by academic knowledge. The program's modules were exactly what I required.
Elias Ebai
New Product Introduction and Quality Manager
Meeting the demands of industry
Across many sectors there is an increasing global demand for expertise in engineering operations management, logistics and supply chain, sustainable development and continuous improvement techniques such as lean and Six Sigma.
Today’s employers are seeking graduates who can demonstrate a strong understanding not just in the technical disciplines but also in areas such as operations and supply chain management, strategic business issues, process improvement, system modelling and simulation, enterprise resource planning and project management.
Our MSc delivers the high-level skills, knowledge and strategic insights you need to make the most of these opportunities.
Research
Students from this MSc programme have been involved in funded research projects at the Institute for Innovation in Sustainable Engineering (IISE), and Rail Research and Innovation Centre (RRIC) within the College of Science and Engineering covering subjects of high-value manufacturing technologies such as Additive Manufacturing and 3D Printing, composite materials design, simulation, testing, optimisation and application, and circular economy business model and sustainable organisational change design and development.
Tailored to match your needs
This course offers flexibility so that you can choose the areas of technical and management advancement you would like to focus on. Specialist options will enable you to match your studies to your career aspirations and to contribute effectively to improving your company’s performance in priority areas.
A vibrant learning experience
You will benefit from a variety of teaching methods, including real case studies, work-based learning, research-based learning, laboratory work, guest lectures, individual and group projects, and interactive online materials.
"I’m currently just about to start my final semester with the University of Derby studying an MSc in Strategic Engineering Management; the course content is both extremely interesting and engaging with the module topics delivering relevant and up to date content. The course academics delivery of the module content has been second to none, expectations are clearly communicated and students are encouraged to exceed personal aspirations. All module academics are extremely supportive and accommodating to the whole group as well as being adaptable and sympathetic to your personal needs when required. The whole University has a family feel about it."
-
Steve Edwards, Production Planning Engineer, Bentley Motors
I felt the course content was up to date and relevant to the industry today. It has helped me gain the knowledge I need to take the next steps to a career in management. Studying part time helped me apply my knowledge to real world situations on a daily basis.
Josh Denning
Engineer, Production Print Engineering
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
This course is made up of three stages - Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma and MSc.
Students starting this course in September will study modules such as:
Postgraduate Certificate
You will study modules such as:
Research Methods: Application and Evaluation
This module will advise, guide and develop you in the various elements that constitute the skills required for identifying and applying appropriate research methods and developing an overall research plan. Your learning will include how to identify, evaluate and apply different research philosophies, research approaches, research strategies, research methods, and methods of data collection and analysis.
Operations and Supply Chain Management
The core activity of any organisation is its operations, and the performance of the organisation is determined by how well these operations are managed. This module takes a detailed look at the decisions engineering managers need to make about operations in manufacturing and service organisations. In particular you will focus on the notion of supply chain management and the competitive benefits that may be gained from the adoption of supply chain and logistics perspectives. On completion, you will be equipped with an understanding of the concepts, methods, techniques and tools that enable you to analyse and implement solutions to operations and supply chain management issues in engineering and manufacturing organisations.
Environmental Risk and Responsibility
You will evaluate how the professional actions, decisions and leadership of others have a local impact as well as wider implications for the environment and the sustainable future of the planet. This module will be delivered online for students joining the course in January.
You will also choose one module, such as:
Advanced Manufacturing Engineering
This module will investigate the application of latest developments in advanced manufacturing technologies and rapid prototyping (RP) techniques. It will develop your knowledge and ability to critically analyse various processes such as EDM, water jet cutting and laser-based technologies. The module will also focus on newer technologies targeted at micro/nano scale manufacturing. In addition, sustainable and environmental aspects and their relevance to the manufacturing sector will be discussed.
Enterprise Systems and Project Management
In today’s globally competitive environment, an organisation will find it very difficult to operate and survive with silo information systems. Organisations need to be agile and flexible, and will require the same from their information systems. These systems need to have integrated data, applications and resources from across the organisation. Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems, such as SAP and Oracle, integrate data across - and are comprehensive in supporting - all the major functions. This module provides a critical understanding of operation, structure and implementation issues around ERP systems as used in industry. Topics covered include understanding ERP systems; the planning, design and implementation of ERP systems; ERP functions such as sales and marketing, manufacturing and material management, accounting and finance; ERP software selections; and managing ERP projects.
The module also provides insights into key areas of project management to enable you to work within or to lead a project team. You will gain a critical understanding of the latest advanced techniques and strategies for project management, including project management life cycle, management tools, management and reporting methods, and team building.
Negotiated Module: Solving Engineering Management Problems
You will undertake a significant work-based project to solve a complex engineering management problem within or beyond your own operational area at work, using academic methodology and applications. Your tutor will advise you if you need formal postgraduate study to support your technical development as part of this module.
The Negotiated Module encourages you to engage with a specific aspect of professional practice that should complement or extend your academic studies at masters level. The module includes aspects of negotiation, project management, target setting and implementation of objectives situated in practical experience and realised in the context of work-based learning. The alignment of the agreed project aims and objectives with the required learning outcomes is integral to the successful completion of this module.
Postgraduate Diploma
You will study modules such as:
C
PD and Strategic Management
During this module, you will develop your managerial skills in preparation for working in a global industry environment. You will study strategic concepts and learn how to transfer them into your own industry or specialism using a structured approach. You will focus on managing the global future by analysis rather than by instinct and will become adept at forecasting and financial analysis, while considering business ethics. The Continuing Professional Development (CPD) element of this module means that you will be able to contextualise and concentrate your studies in your own discipline to improve your employability.
Driving Change through Business Excellence
Many innovative organisations are adopting the use of lean, Six Sigma and TQM initiatives as part of their strategy for improving efficiency and productivity. These process-driven initiatives are large-scale, cross-functional and rely on individuals being able to drive change, process innovation and lead and communicate across multiple disciplines. During this module, you will discover the challenges faced by organisations to make sustainable change and compete in dynamic markets. You will be challenged to develop confidence in your personal competences, impact characteristics and skills as a leader/change agent. You will explore cultural, political and behavioural challenges associated with organisational change. More specifically, you will be given the opportunity to develop your social and emotional competencies using a 360 degree feedback tool.
Manufacturing Systems Optimisation and Simulation
Leading manufacturing companies around the world recognise computer simulation as a cutting-edge technology for the 21st century. It is rapidly becoming a mainstream business tool in many industrial sectors including automotive and aerospace. This module introduces the principles of computer simulation using an industry-leading discrete-event simulation software (Simio) and its applications within the manufacturing industry. It will also provide a good understanding of the principles and methods for designing, operating and controlling competitive manufacturing systems. Main topics of study include system thinking; dynamic inter-relationships of sub-systems in manufacturing systems; approaches to the design of manufacturing systems; appropriate techniques to manage, optimise and control manufacturing systems; use of simulation models in the design and management of manufacturing systems; stages in simulation life cycle; performance evaluation in manufacturing systems using simulation; and data collection and analysis for manufacturing simulations.
MSc
You will study one module, such as:
Independent Scholarship
This triple module is an integral and substantial part of your masters degree. It will provide you with an opportunity to use and enhance the knowledge and intellectual skills you have gained during the course through an extensive investigation of a proposed postgraduate study related to the course material. You will produce a coherent, sustained and comprehensive research study to demonstrate your ability to generate complex proposals with an awareness of current issues and insights, show originality in the application of subject knowledge and, where appropriate, propose new hypotheses and speculations. You will be challenged to demonstrate a critical understanding of how the boundaries of knowledge are advanced through research in the production of clear, logically argued and original work related to your field of study.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
This course is delivered through a combination of lectures, tutorial classes, case study discussions, work-related learning activities, research-based learning and computer lab sessions which give you hands-on experience of using software.
How you are assessed
Assessment involves a mix of exams and coursework, both individually and as a group. A dissertation completes the course.
Who will teach you
Dr Kapila Liyanage
Programme Leader
Dr Kapila Liyanage
Dr Liyanage is the Programme Leader for MSc Strategic Engineering Management and BEng (Hons) Engineering Management. He is also an active researcher and his research interests and experience include operations management, com...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You will normally need an appropriate engineering or science undergraduate degree (2:2 or above) or an equivalent professional qualification or significant industrial and professional experience.
If English is not your first language, you will also need an IELTS score of 6.0 or equivalent.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,000 for the full course or £1,000 per 20 credits*
£1,000 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course or £1,055 per 20 credits*
£1,055 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Free student membership of relevant professional accreditation body
Some essential educational software packages will be provided free
Use of resources such as computer rooms, workshops and laboratories
Use of PPE kits in workshops as and when required, such as safety boots, safety googles and ear plugs
Talks from expert industry speakers
£150 maximum allowance for master's project
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Additional Educational Software, approximately £100
Computer Accessories, approximately £30
Additional Industry visits, approximately £40
Additional expenses for master's project, approximately £50
Printing, approximately £80
Optional costs not included in your fees
Personal computer or tablet computer approx. £500
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
The MSc Strategic Engineering Management develops a wide range of knowledge and job-related skills that employers are seeking in many industries, including the manufacturing and service sectors.
On completion of your studies, you will be able to make a significant contribution to organisational success and will be well equipped for a variety of management and leadership roles, especially in the engineering, manufacturing and supply chain fields.
Career opportunities include:
Mechanical Engineer
Manufacturing Engineer
Application Engineer
Production Engineer
Team Manager
Employers our graduates have gone on to work for include:
Rolls Royce
Bombardier
Atkins
Manufacturing Technology Centre (MTC)
Gardner Aerospace
Cullum Detuners
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering MSc
Control and Instrumentation MSc