Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/sport-exercise-science-courses/strength-conditioning-and-rehabilitation-bsc-hons/

Strength, Conditioning and Rehabilitation BSc (Hons) - Sport and Exercise Science - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Sport and Exercise Science
Strength, Conditioning and Rehabilitation BSc (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Strength, Conditioning and Rehabilitation
BSc (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 years,  Part-time: Up to 6 years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
C631
Start date
September
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
If you do not achieve the typical entry points required, you may want to consider studying this course with foundation year.
View with foundation year option
View with foundation year option
Prepare for a successful career in a rapidly growing area of sport. We will equip you with highly specialised skills for professional roles in strength and conditioning, rehabilitation and injury risk reduction.
Learn in our new state-of-the-art
Sports Centre
with its high-tech strength and conditioning suite incorporating VICON 3D motion capture system and integrated Kistler Force Plates
Gain experience in the latest training methods to help athletes maximise their performance and return from injury
Build vital employability skills on work placements with organisations like Derby County FC, Derbyshire Country Cricket Club and Burton Albion FC
Develop the in-depth knowledge and practical skills you need for professional accreditation in strength and conditioning
Designed in collaboration with our industry partners, this exciting new course offers you all the benefits of applied experience, high-quality facilities and expert teaching.
100
%
of students agreed they were satisfied with teaching on the course
BSc (Hons) Strength, Conditioning and Rehabilitation - National Student Survey 2024
100
%
of students agreed the course is intellectually stimulating
BSc (Hons) Strength, Conditioning and Rehabilitation - National Student Survey 2024
95
%
of students agreed they were satisfied with academic support
BSc (Hons) Strength, Conditioning and Rehabilitation - National Student Survey 2024
Sport and Exercise Science - your questions answered
In the below video, Head of School for Sport and Exercise Science, Andy Hooton, answers some of the most frequently asked questions about Sport and Exercise Science at the University of Derby.
View Sport and Exercise Science - your questions answered! video transcript
Strength, Conditioning and Rehabilitation at Derby
As the sport industry evolves to feature more interdisciplinary work, this course meets a growing need for strength and conditioning specialists who can also call on detailed knowledge of injury rehabilitation and risk reduction.
Combining the most up-to-date practices with state-of-the-art equipment in our strength and conditioning suite, this course equips you with a range of techniques and applications to enhance the performance of athletes and reduce their risk of injuries. You'll have plenty of one-to-one time with the teaching team and gain vast amounts of hands-on experience working on our equipment and also through placements in industry.
Expert teaching
Our staff include accredited professionals who will provide you with high-quality teaching and support. They are actively involved in research, high-performance sport and applied sport science consultancy.  They are also members of leading professional bodies, including the United Kingdom Strength and Conditioning Association and the Society of Sports Therapists.
We host regular masterclasses where established sports practitioners give you insights into their own career experiences and help develop your employability skills.
Specialist knowledge, advanced skills
The sport industry is evolving to feature more interdisciplinary work, with greater liaison between sport science experts and medical or injury management teams. This far-sighted new course reflects that trend, meeting the growing demand for strength and conditioning specialists who can also call on detailed knowledge of injury rehabilitation and risk reduction. Incorporating the most up-to-date practices, it will help you become adept in a range of techniques and applications to enhance athlete performance and lessen the threat of injuries.
Work placement opportunities
To ensure you’re well prepared for employment, you’ll engage in professional development activities including internships, research participation and/or additional qualifications in your first year and a mandatory work placement in your second year. You’ll also have the opportunity to undertake an optional placement year between your second and third year.
These opportunities have been made possible thanks to our flourishing links with local sports organisations including Derby County FC, Leicester City FC, Leicester Tigers Rugby Club, Derbyshire County Cricket Club, Derventio Swimming Club and the Derbyshire Institute of Sport.
Your placements may initially involve observing or shadowing professionals working in the strength, conditioning and rehabilitation arena. You’ll then progress to more hands-on roles as your level of experience grows.
Open Day was the key to Conor's success
An Open Day at Derby set Conor Seaman on his career path. He was so impressed by our staff and our facilities that he joined our BSc (Hons) Strength, Conditioning and Rehabilitation. He’s now working as a Sports Therapist at a private hospital.
Find out more about Conor's story
Find out more about Conor's story
Preparing you for your future career
The course prepares you for UK accreditation as a strength and conditioning practitioner. Our curriculum is aligned to guidelines set out by the
United Kingdom Strength and Conditioning Association (UKSCA)
so that you can achieve this professional recognition which is important for your career development.
We also offer you the chance to gain additional vocational qualifications, such as various coaching and first aid awards throughout the strength, conditioning and rehabilitation course.
Conditioning Coach Konrad goes from strength to strength
Konrad Polny has been offered numerous coaching opportunities since graduating from our BSc (Hons) Strength, Conditioning and Rehabilitation. He is now the Strength and Conditioning Coach at University College London - and at Edgware and Kingsbury Town FC.
Read more about Konrad's story
Read more about Konrad's story
Our Performance Suite
Our Performance Suite allows Sport and Exercise Science students to learn about performance analysis, biomechanics, strength and conditioning, and injury prevention. As well as elite athletes outside of the University, you'll also be working with our Team Derby athletes to help them improve their performance and successfully compete. Take a look at the Performance Suite and Vicon cameras in action:
View Open Day Live - Performance Suite video transcript
Outstanding specialist facilities
Our £10.8m
Sports Centre
features a bespoke where you can develop practical and coaching skills in areas such as weightlifting, prehabilitation, metabolic conditioning, and session planning and delivery.
We have invested in other cutting-edge resources for our sports students too. These include a well-equipped sport and exercise facilities and a separate biomechanics laboratory containing the latest equipment for testing and measuring the parameters of health and fitness. In addition, we use a range of computer software packages for statistical and movement analysis.
During your studies, you can also take full advantage of all the facilities at the new Sports Centre, which boasts a main hall, fitness gym, studios, squash and badminton courts, an internal climbing wall, sprint track, changing rooms, treatment rooms and a café.
Sports Scholarships
The University of Derby is a sporting hub for talented athletes and coaches. We have a track record of improving the performance of our
University sports clubs
and we have created an infrastructure to provide support for talented athletes. We offer a
Sports Scholarship
programme that aims to help talented student-athletes realise their sporting potential while supporting them through their academic studies. We offer scholarships of up to £6,000 and provide tailored athlete-support packages delivered by an experienced multi-disciplinary Performance Sport team. Two of the Universities most recent successful sports scholars are Charlie Tanfield (World Champion and Commonwealth Cycling gold medallist) and Jack Burnell (European Open Water silver medallist 2016 and Olympian 2016).
Join Team Derby
If you enjoy a challenge and would like to make the most of your own sporting passion and prowess, you could become involved with
Team Derby
which is the focal point for the University’s sporting community. It encompasses all aspects of sport, including courses, numerous sports clubs, the Athletics Union and sport development activities. You can also take part in the national
BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport)
competitions.
We have also recently appointed Double Olympic Medallist, Bryan Steel, as the Head Coach for Team Derby Performance Sport Cycling. Bryan is a celebrated figure in the world of cycling, bringing a wealth of experience to his role. The decorated Olympian, who represented Team GB at four Olympic Games from 1992 to 2004, boasts an impressive medal collection. His crowning achievements include a bronze medal in the team pursuit event at the 2000 Sydney Olympics and a silver medal at the 2004 Athens Games in the same discipline. Brian's journey also includes 14 World Championship appearances, where he secured five medals, along with three medals at the Commonwealth Games. With the arrival of Bryan, Performance Sport at the university will work in partnership with HUUB-BCC Race Team to give track and road riders access to an elite pathway during and post higher education. This collaboration opens doors for Team Derby Performance Cycling's athletes, offering a unique opportunity to bridge their academic pursuits with professional cycling aspirations.
View Sport at Derby video transcript
Managing Excellence
When Mark Faghy first arrived in Derby as a teenage undergraduate, he stated proudly that his goal was to become manager of the England football team. Now he is a respected research academic leading an international collaboration in the fight against Covid. And his students are helping.
Read Mark's story
Read Mark's story
Big spaces for big ideas
Kedleston Road offers it all: study in our largest library, relax at Basecamp, train in real-world healthcare settings, and stay active in our state-of-the-art Sports Centre.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
Teaching and learning will take place in our new £10.8m, state-of-the-art sport centre, equipped with a bespoke strength and conditioning suite and 50m running track with motion analysis. Further sport science facilities will be used to ensure students gain the required knowledge and skills to work in the applied arena of strength, conditioning and rehabilitation.
Assessment
Assessments will employ a combination of theoretical and practical assignments, such as case study presentations, field based assessments, written coursework, and professional discussions. This variety of assessments will enable learning and assess necessary skills required in future employment.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Mark Newman
Programme Leader
Mark Newman
As a Senior Lecturer in Sport Therapy and Rehabilitation, Mark Newman is involved in teaching across a range of modules on the programme, delivering theoretical and practical sessions in line with the requirements of the Society of Spo...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC (At least a grade C (or equivalent) from a Science subject, including Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Physical Education or Psychology)
T Level
T Level in Science
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 15, Merit: 24, Pass: 6. Must include passes in compulsory Level 3 subjects
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
If you're an international student and want to improve your English language skills before you start your course, the Derby English Language Centre's
pre-sessional English course
can help you.
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
£1,190 per 20 credit module
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
To welcome you to our team, you'll receive a University of Derby, Sport and Exercise Science t-shirt
If a DBS check is needed for the purposes of a module or programme related work placement, this is included in your fee if done via the University
You will also receive United Kingdom Strength and Conditioning Association student membership for the duration of your studies and for a First Aid qualification in your first year of study
Fieldtrips to relevant Strength and Conditioning events/organisations are also included and we will contribute to, or pay the full cost of, as well as additional qualifications which are arranged by us. For other additional qualifications that you're interested in, we may contribute to or fund these but this is at the Sport department's discretion
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
If not already owned, appropriate clothing for practical sessions such as tracksuit bottoms and trainers - approximate cost is £50-£100
Travel to placements - cost varies depending on your placement venue of choice
Optional costs not included in your fees
Lots of e-books are available for free through the University Library, however you may wish to purchase a hard copy of these at your own expense
You may wish to undertake additional qualifications as part of your studies - costs will vary depending on your choice
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
This course is the ideal platform for employment in areas such as elite and participation sport, strength and conditioning, rehabilitation and sport coaching.
You can also consider taking your qualifications to the next level. We offer the
MSc Clinical Exercise Science
and
MSc Applied Sport and Exercise Science
– which includes a Sport and Exercise Psychology pathway – where you will develop advanced knowledge in your chosen subject.
Through our Professional Development Package, you'll gain valuable transferable skills, including:
Written and verbal communication
Research and analytical
Personal motivation, organisation and self-reflection
Numeracy
IT literacy
Critical awareness
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Strength, Conditioning and Rehabilitation with Foundation Year BSc (Hons)
Sports Nutrition and Health BSc (Hons)
Sport and Exercise Science BSc (Hons)
Performance Analysis and Coaching Science BSc (Hons)
Sport Therapy and Rehabilitation BSc (Hons)