Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/supervisory-practice-and-evaluation-within-an-organisational-context/

Supervisory Practice and Evaluation within an Organisational Context - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Supervisory Practice and Evaluation within an Organisational Context
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Supervisory Practice and Evaluation within an Organisational Context
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Module details
Module code
7CL523
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
September, January, May
Duration
2.5 months
Location
Online
Module description
About this module
An important element of supervision is the need for you to evaluate your performance as a supervisor in terms of the outcomes and benefits your supervisees experience(s) and within an organisational, legal and professional context.
The module includes an emphasis on supervisors receiving supervision on their practice and examines various methods for setting up supervisors' supervisory networks.
You will be equipped with an understanding of the structure and culture of organisations and their relationship to their effects on supervision and will develop the skills and attitudes required of senior organisational supervisors.
Who is this course for
All health professionals, All health and social care professionals, nursing and paramedic, occupational therapy, pharmacists, ultrasonography, education professionals
Course team
Yasuhiro Kotera (Academic Lead) – NLP, compassion, bibliotherapy, mental health, cultural comparison
Danielle Mills (Lecturer) – Animal assisted therapy, eating difficulties and disorders, body dysmorphia, body image and self-esteem, adolescent mental health, health sociology
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Demonstrate the ability to evaluate performance and supervision at an individual, group and organisational level.
Demonstrate a critical understanding of the influence of legal, professional, ethical and organisational influences on the supervision process.
Critically reflect on the practice and processes when receiving supervision for supervision.
Entry requirements
You'll need to:
Be a professionally qualified, experienced (minimum 12 months post-qualification) and accredited or accreditable counsellor and/or psychotherapist.
Demonstrate ability to work at level 7, through previous study at postgraduate level.
Provide photographic ID, such as a driving license or passport
Provide evidence of having studied at Higher Education level in the English Language or GCSE English Grade C.
If you can show you have undertaken learning that is equivalent to certain parts of the course, you may wish to claim credits for prior learning and may not need to take both modules. Contact us for more information.
If English is not your first language you will need an English language qualification. For this course you will need at least IELTS 7.0 or equivalent.
Empower your workforce with block bookings
Take advantage of a short courses block booking to upskill your employees. Our short courses run on-campus and online and include new legislation and other up-to-the-minute issues. Get in touch today and we will tailor a package to meet the needs of your business.
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.