Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/online/environment-sciences-courses/sustainability-and-environmental-management-msc-online/

Sustainability and Environmental Management MSc - Environmental Sciences - University of Derby
Study
Online learning
Course search
Environmental Sciences
Sustainability and Environmental Management MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Sustainability and Environmental Management
MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Attend a webinar
Attend a webinar
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Online course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Online course details
Study options
Part-time: 3 years
UK fee
£9,000
(2024/25)
‡
International fee
£9,000
(2024/25)
‡
Start dates
September, January, May
Location
Online
In the past few decades, the importance of environmental management has continually risen on the agenda of both private and public organisations due to the increasing environmental crises that the world is facing. In addition, the scope of what is covered by environmental management is becoming broader with elements of sustainability being embedded within industry standards.
As the scope of what is covered by environmental management broadens, by extension the skills environmental practitioners and managers are expected to have now includes social and financial skill sets such as corporate governance, making environmental business cases, communication and reporting, sustainable value chain and sustainable business management among others.
Following this shift in the sector, the need to acquire sustainability skills and training for environmental management practitioners has never been so important.
Accredited by IEMA, giving you free student membership
This programme is accredited by the
Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment (IEMA),
a high-quality benchmark recognised by employers around the world.
The IEMA Accreditation gives you free IEMA student membership while studying this programme, giving you access to a wide range of resources and support to complement your studies such as free articles, webinars, events, newsfeed and downloads as well as copies of The Transform Magazine, the world’s most read environment and sustainability publication.
Upon completion of this course, you will be eligible to join the Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment (IEMA) as a graduate member (GradIEMA) and fast track to Practitioner Member status (PIEMA) depending on your experience.
Accredited by CIWEM, giving you free student membership
This programme is accredited by the
Chartered Institution of Water and Environmental Management (CIWEM)
.
Whilst enrolled on this master’s degree you can enjoy free student membership to the
CIWEM
that allows you to:
Keep up to date with the latest best-practice knowledge through their member’s magazine, policy documents and technical journals
Build your professional network through free events and local branches
Enhance your career prospects through professional recognition of your qualification
The CIWEM will support the development of the skills and qualities that employers are looking for, providing you with opportunities to showcase your talents.
Upon completion of this course, you will be eligible to register for graduate membership of CIWEM.
100%
I am happy with the support I received for planning my dissertation / major project
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2024
95%
There is appropriate access to online library resources
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2024
90%
My course has challenged me to produce my best work
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2024
Popular with those already in the industry
This degree is a popular choice for those already employed in the industry due to the ability to study some of our modules on their own to enhance your CPD. Our standalone 20 credit modules have been designed to enhance career development and progression into the broader areas of sustainability and leadership. The 20 credit modules that can be taken as standalone modules are as follows:
International Environmental Policy and Law
Tools for Delivering Sustainable Solutions to Environmental Problems
Sustainable Business Management
Environmental Impact Assessment
Exemptions for IEMA Practitioners
As 3 core modules are aligned to IEMA’s practitioner level membership, IEMA practitioner members can join the programme at the Postgraduate Diploma stage.
Don't just take our word for it...
Graduate Delma Bright talks about her time as a student with University of Derby Online Learning.
View Career progression with online learning video transcript
Find out more about the online course
Our Academic Lead for the MSc Sustainability and Environmental Management, Dr Uche Okere, talks about the online MSc Sustainability and Environmental Management course in this video.
View Dr Uche Oke introduces the MSc Sustainability and Environmental Management video transcript
What you will study
You can
view the study plan for this online course
.
If we have an insufficient number of students interested in an optional module, this may not be offered. In addition, where demand is high, some modules may be subject to a cap.
Postgraduate Certificate stage
You must complete three core modules.
Postgraduate Diploma stage
You must complete the three core modules at Postgraduate Certificate stage as well as three optional modules.
Masters stage
To gain the full MSc, you must complete the Postgraduate Certificate and Postgraduate Diploma plus the Independent Scholarly Activity which is a triple module, worth 60 credits.
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Online MSc Sustainability and Environmental Management Q&A: December 2024
Tuesday, 3 December 2024 12.00 - 12.30
If you're interested in joining the online MSc Sustainability and Environmental Management course and wish to find out more, join the live Q&A to hear from Dr Uche Okere, Programme Leader, and get your questions answered.
Book your webinar
Book your webinar
How you will learn
Pace of study
We recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete one 20-credit module over a 10-week trimester.
There will be 1/2 virtual classrooms over the 10 week trimester and if you are unable to attend you will be able to download the session to view in your own time.
Assessment method
This course is assessed through 100% coursework with a range of methods, such as essays, research reports, presentations, group work and practical reports.
Student support and guidance
Whilst we encourage our students to become independent, life-long learners, we also recognise that offering the right support and guidance will help you to achieve your goals. There is a wealth of support available to you at the University, from your dedicated Personal Tutor and Online Learner Advisor, through to our:
Library
Health and Wellbeing Centre
Careers and Employability Service
IT Support
Union of Students
Develop@Derby
for study, personal and employability skills
All these services, and more, are available to you as an online student at the University of Derby.
Who will teach you
Dr Uchechukwu Okere
Programme Leader
Dr Uchechukwu Okere
Academic Lead for Environmental Management, Dr Uchechukwu Okere, has previously worked with the Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment (IEMA) to deliver professional training courses to environmental professiona...
View full staff profile
→
Explore all teaching staff on this course
Get a taste of the course content
Our Sustainability and Environmental Management MSc course taster will give you an idea of how online learning works. It includes a selection of content from a course module so you can see what some of our learning material looks like.
You will need to complete a short form to access the course taster.
Try our course taster
Try our course taster
Entry requirements
You will normally need an undergraduate degree (minimum 2:2). A science or related degree is preferred but a range of degrees will be considered.
If you don’t have this qualification but do have extensive and relevant work experience at an appropriate level we welcome your application.
You must provide a CV detailing your academic and work experience and a reference from your workplace or the institution where you undertook your previous study. This information should be included as part of your online application.
English language qualifications
You will normally need one of the following English Language qualifications:
GCE O level English Language: Grade C
GCSE English: Grade C
If English is not your first language, or you have not successfully completed your highest level of qualification in English, you will need an English language qualification. For this course you will need at least one of the following:
IELTS 6.0 (minimum of 5.5 in any areas)
TOEFL 550 (paper based) 213 (computer based) or 80 (internet based)
Pearson Test of Academic English: 51
Cambridge Advanced Certificate: Pass
London Tests of English: we accept level 5 for postgraduate courses
International GCE O Level English Language: Grade C
International GCSE English/English as a Second Language: Grade C
Find out more about English language requirements
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£1,000
7 (six 20 credit modules and one 60 credit module)
£9,000
IEMA practitioner members
£1,000
4 (three 20 credit modules and one 60 credit module)
£6,000
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
Per 20 credits
Modules
Cost
UK/EU/International
£1,080
7 (six 20 credit modules and one 60 credit module)
£9,720
IEMA practitioner members
£1,080
4 (three 20 credit modules and one 60 credit module)
£6,480
About your fees
This figure would be the total cost of this course based on the fee in the current academic year. However, please note that fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase if your course lasts longer than one year.
If you are required to undertake any associate study or additional study as a condition of your offer for the programme, please be aware that the cost for this may be in addition to the programme cost stated above.
Exemptions for IEMA Practitioner Members
If you are an IEMA practitioner member, you are entitled to exemptions worth 60 credits on the three modules covered in the Postgraduate Certificate stage of this course, a saving on the cost of the full MSc.
This means that you will join the course at the Postgraduate Diploma stage and complete a total of three optional modules plus the Independent Scholarly Activity to achieve the MSc Sustainability and Environmental Management.
You will need to provide evidence of your IEMA practitioner membership with your application so we can confirm your exemptions.
This will take a minimum of 2 years to complete.
Flexible payment plans available
Choose from
two payment plan options
:
Pay monthly and only for the modules you are studying
Pay your full course fees upfront and avoid annual increases
Masters funding options
Depending on where you are from in the UK or EU, and on your pace of study, you may be eligible for a
postgraduate student loan
. Accessible through Student Finance, this is a non-income based loan to help with living costs and tuition fees whilst studying your masters programme.
If you are considering applying for a student loan, please also see our additional guidance on
Loans for Online Students
.
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out more about the Alumni discount
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Documents to support your application
In order for your application to be assessed, you will need to provide the following documents when you apply:
Official photo identification such as a passport or driving licence
Current CV
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
.
Please note:
failure to submit any documentation when requested, may result in your application being withdrawn.
Application deadlines
All of our online courses have set start dates throughout the year. We require time to review your application and get back to you with a response before your course starts. Take a look at
information regarding applying for an online course
to see full details of deadlines and term dates.
Careers
Upon completion of this programme, you will be equipped with the skills needed to improve the culture of sustainability within your organisation. Additionally, through enhancing your communication, employability and digital skills, you will be well placed to perform better in your current role, seek a promotion or secure a new job.
If you wish to further your studies, you may choose to progress onto a PhD or other research degree in environmental management or sustainability within the university or elsewhere.
For professional development, you could also undertake further professional development through short courses or our standalone 20 credit modules at level 7, which can be taken as Certificates of Credit for your professional development. Choose from:
International Environmental Policy and Law
Tools for Delivery Sustainable Solutions to Environmental Problems
Sustainable Business Management
Environmental Impact Assessment
Utilise our Careers and Employment Service​
Whilst you are a student at the University of Derby, and for 3 years after you graduate, our
Careers and Employment Service
can assist you with job search advice, CV creation, workshops and events, as well as one-to-one appointments with employment advisers to help with career planning and interview preparation.
Contact us
Contact the University of Derby Online Learning:
Contact us
Contact us
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
Other courses you might like
Environmental Impact Assessment Certificate of Credit
International Environmental Policy and Law Certificate of Credit
Sustainable Business Management Certificate of Credit
Tools for Delivering Sustainable Solutions to Environmental Problems Certificate of Credit