Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/architecture-architectural-technology-courses/sustainable-architecture-healthy-buildings-msc/

Sustainable Architecture and Healthy Buildings MSc - Architectural Technologies and Interior Architecture - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Architectural Technologies and Interior Architecture
Sustainable Architecture and Healthy Buildings MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Sustainable Architecture and Healthy Buildings
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: 2-3 years
UK fee
£9,000 for the full course or £1,000 per 20 credits*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start dates
September, January
Location
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
This course is accredited by the
CIA
T
and the
Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB)
and the University of Derby is one of only four
CIAT
Centres of Excellence in the UK
Draw on our extensive industrial links and the expertise of our research and practice active highly experienced staff
Add a new dimension to your knowledge of design and technology relating to energy efficiency in buildings
Gain vital practical experience through live sustainable design projects
Be inspired by specialist guest lectures, seminars and workshops
Learn from influential academics who are conducting important research into sustainable design
Our MSc is a contemporary sustainable architecture course offering an innovative blend of the established scientific theories and design principles relating to healthy buildings and environments.
C
IA
T Accredited course; a springboard to Chartership
This course is accredited by the
Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologies (CIAT)
,
a dynamic, forward-thinking and inclusive global membership qualifying body for Architectural Technology.
CIAT is a membership organisation representing 10,000 members, including those practising and studying within the discipline and profession, who wish to be professionally recognised.
CIAT Accreditation implies that the programme has been assessed in terms of content, structure, resources and has met the Institute's requirements.
Whilst enrolled on this course, you will benefit from free student membership with CIAT where you'll be able to access their recourses to further enhance your professional development and enrich your studies.
Upon graduation, you'll be eligible to apply for Associate Membership (ACIAT) and you will be entitled to exemptions against the educational standards of the MCIAT Professional Assessment when progressing to become a Chartered Architectural Technologist, MCIAT.
Student feedback - Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024
100
%
overall satisfaction
100
%
of students agrees that staff are enthusiastic about what they teach
100
%
of our students agreed that staff are good at explaining things
100
%
of our students agreed that the course is intellectually stimulating
100
%
of students agreed that their research skills have developed during the course
100
%
of students agreed they were happy with the learning support received on the course
New perspectives on design practice
This course enables you to build on your existing knowledge and skills by raising your awareness of the environmental impact of design decisions. It also looks at how to undertake holistic sustainable design analysis integrated within the building information modelling environment.
You will critically analyse current sustainable architecture and low energy design principles and technologies, government legislation, codes for sustainable design and other important professional, industrial and commerce drivers. You will also research issues that could adversely affect the health of building users, coming up with findings and solutions which are people-centred, proactive and preventive.
Sustainability is not just about the environment so you will also consider it in a broader contextual framework, including socio-cultural, economic and governance factors as well as advances in scientific and technological research.
Throughout my studies, the academics have provided me with a wealth of knowledge and have always encouraged and motivated me to push the boundaries to achieve more. Their genuine care and personal support has meant a world when I was facing difficulties.
Tommy Harrison
MSc Sustainable Architecture and Healthy Buildings
Engage with influential research
You will be able to draw inspiration from – and take part in – the leading-edge sustainable design research initiatives being undertaken by our lecturers.
The built environment staff have strong research and practice backgrounds and are actively engaged in applied research and collaboration with the industry. Since most of our research is applied by nature and as such underpins the curriculum, the Master’s students are gaining from regular research seminars, guest lectures and CPD events. This includes research-active lecturers who are incorporating current research thinking and advances into their teaching, projects and independent studies supervision, wherever appropriate. The programme curriculum is aligned to the current needs of professional practice in the construction industry, complemented by the extensive industrial links and current staff expertise and research profile.
The research environment is provided by a multidisciplinary team which focuses on a research profile that in particular underpins teaching and the curriculum in areas of sustainable urban design and architecture, BIM and project collaboration, technical architecture and construction. Current research themes are organised around the following key areas:
Sustainable Architecture
Healthy Buildings
Technology and Materials
BIM and Project Collaboration
Digital Technologies
Education and Pedagogical Research
History and Theories of Architecture methods and site preparation
Student concepts wow real estate developer for PEAK Gateway
Students studying Architectural Degrees and Masters level programmes have worked with Milligan to create inspiring concepts that explore the future vision for the PEAK Gateway development.
Find out more about the project
Find out more about the project
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
This course is made up of three stages – Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma, and MSc.
Postgraduate Certificate
You will study modules such as:
Health in Buildings: Comparative Approaches
This module will raise your awareness of the different stages in implementing the health and safety aspects of the design of a new build, and the way remedies can be applied in dealing with existing environments.
Sustainable Architecture and Low Energy Design
During this module, you will critically evaluate the design principles, methodologies and techniques involved in the low-energy design of sustainable architecture, whether new build or retrofit. You will look at significant issues relating to climate change and the use of energy in the built environment.
Environmental Risk and Responsibility
This module aims to encourage non-environmental students to critically evaluate how their individual professional actions, decisions and leadership of others interacts and how this interacts with society and the impacts of environmental risk and the sustainable future of the planet. We begin with a global view of how the environment is stressed by anthropogenic actions. The module takes a systemic approach to how responsibility for sustainability challenges does not always lie with the decision maker. There is an increasing need for organisations to go beyond pure legal compliance and consider CSR, decarbonisation, and more efficient use of resources, while it is acknowledged that economic viability is a requirement for both private and public bodies. This is an interdisciplinary module so students will be expected to work outside their areas of expertise and interact with other students and members of the community from different cultural, social, and disciplinary areas to evaluate and offer design and technological decisions to reduce environmental risks.
Postgraduate Diploma
You will study modules such as:
CPD and Strategic Management
During this module, you will develop your managerial skills in preparation for working in a global industry environment. You will study strategic concepts and learn how to transfer them into your own industry or specialism using a structured approach. You will focus on managing the global future by analysis rather than by instinct and become adept at forecasting and financial analysis, while considering business ethics.
Sustainable Design Simulation and Analysis
This module will provide you with a theoretical and practical study of sustainable building analysis in relation to a design proposal, linked with its climate and location. You will look at significant issues relating to climate change and the use of energy in the built environment.
You will also choose one module, such as:
Sustainable Construction Methods and Materials
One of the important remits of sustainable construction is to reduce the use of fossil-fuel based energy consumption. This module will see you critically evaluating the principles, methodologies and techniques involved in the selection and specification of sustainable construction methods and materials.
Designing Environments
This module is an option for students with a background in architectural technology. You will explore issues related to sustainability and associated with key players and systems in regeneration as well as new research and developments in the design of the built environment.
Negotiated Module
This module is usually studied by part-time students who are in employment as it allows participants to take practical, work-based experience and develop it within an academic context.
MSc
You will study one module, such as:
Independent Scholarship (Built Environment)
This module will enable you to develop your practice in undertaking research by identifying and applying advanced research methodologies, for your postgraduate research project. Your learning will include how to identify, evaluate, and apply diverse research approaches to your own research and the process of collecting and evaluate different types of data and relating your findings to current research. During your study you will be able to construct your own philosophy to approach key research questions. You may also have to compare the use of both quantitative techniques and qualitative techniques in research. You will then utilise and enhance the knowledge and intellectual skills gained during your programme, by means of an extensive investigation of a proposed postgraduate study related to the programme area.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
This programme explores, at postgraduate level, the theory and practice of sustainable urban and building design and its potential impact on the health of users.
It includes live projects, field trips, site work, physical model experimentation, guest lectures and specialist workshops so that your learning experience is as close to real-world practices as academically possible.
A variety of assessment methods is used, including a combination of coursework and live project work, assignments, exhibitions, degree show, peer group reviews, graphic and oral presentations, and portfolios.
Who will teach you
Dr Boris Ceranic
Programme Leader
Dr Boris Ceranic
Dr Boris Ceranic is a long standing Programme Leader of undergraduate and postgraduate architectural courses and an experienced academic, practitioner and researcher.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
You will normally be expected to have an architectural or other built environment undergraduate degree (2:2), or a professional qualification of equal standing, or significant practical or professional experience that would support your application.
If English is not your first language, you will also need an IELTS score of 6.0 or the equivalent.
Applicants from non-traditional backgrounds are welcome to apply and will be accepted subject to successful interview and relevant work experience.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,000 for the full course or £1,000 per 20 credits*
£1,000 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
2025/26 (August 2025 - July 2026)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,720 for the full course or £1,055 per 20 credits*
£1,055 per 20 credits
International
£16,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Use of resources, use of workshop and specialist CAD/BIM/VR facilities
Free student membership of accredited bodies
Organised site visits and fieldtrips
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Ecobuild Trip contribution - £10 per person
Optional costs not included in your fees
Course books - approx. £15 per book depending on source
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
As a graduate of this course, you will discover a wide range of career opportunities including senior sustainable design roles in architectural practice, consultancy or design management.
Alternatively, you could secure positions in environmental design assessment, central and local government, housing associations, retail enterprises and manufacturing companies. You could also consider further study towards a PhD and/or an academic career.
Career opportunities open to graduates include:
Sustainability Consultant Architect
Project Coordinator
Project Manager
Sustainable Energy Consultant
BREEAM Consultant
Employers our graduates have gone on to work for include:
Persimmon Homes
Morrison Design Ltd
CPMG Architects
Leeds Beckett University
Waterman Group
Acorn Associates
Kawneer
Atkins and Voll Groll Consulting Engineers
Anderson Green
GHD
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Download programme specification
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
Building Information Modelling and Project Collaboration MSc