Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/postgraduate/business-courses/sustainable-and-ethical-business-management-msc/

Sustainable and Ethical Business Management MSc - Business - University of Derby
Study
Postgraduate
Postgraduate course search
Business
Sustainable and Ethical Business Management MSc
Apply now
Apply now
Postgraduate Course
Sustainable and Ethical Business Management
MSc
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Available for January start
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 1 year,  Part-time: Up to 6 years
UK fee
£9,450  for the full course*
(2024/25)
International fee
£14,900 for the full course
(2024/25)
Start date
January
Location
Derby Campus
Creating business managers of the future
In light of a rapidly changing global landscape, traditional business is no longer a viable option. There is a shift away from profit only to purpose, planet and people as new business values. Whether it is reaching Net Zero, embedding environmental sustainability or social responsibility, all businesses need to realign to these emerging future priorities. In this programme, you’ll develop the mindset and skills to be at the forefront of change and support the transition to reach the ‘new normal’ for businesses. Given this, businesses will be looking for managers of the future to create resilient companies. We will teach you not only how to manage a business responsibly, but how to be ahead of the market and implement the changes needed to move businesses into a sustainable future.
98
%
of CEOs agree sustainability is core to their role
The 12th United Nations Global Compact-Accenture CEO study
2030
deadline for the Sustainable Development Goals
United Nations Sustainable Development Agenda
93
%
of CEOs are experiencing 10 or more simultaneous challenges to their business
The 12th United Nations Global Compact-Accenture CEO study
Become a responsible business practitioner in a rapidly changing world
In this programme, you will learn to become a responsible business practitioner by looking at why and how to run a business effectively through an integrated sustainable, ethical and socially responsible lens. It will help educate and upskill you as an effective and responsible leader and business manager, which is fast becoming an urgent and vital expertise for all businesses and organisations.
Put your skills into practice
You will get the opportunity to work with businesses directly through the ‘student as practitioner’ approach. This means you'll experience first-hand the challenges and opportunities businesses are facing today. Through your course activities, you will learn how to find responsible solutions that can assist businesses in transitioning effectively to a globally sustainable economy.
These employer-led briefs, simulations and industry case studies will provide valuable and much sought-after insights and experience into the pivotal transition that all businesses require. This will support you in becoming work-ready in line with how businesses today are evolving in response to world challenges.
You will also receive Carbon Literacy certification through association with the Carbon Literacy Project, as well as developing key professional sustainability competencies, values and a responsible mindset which are core to becoming an effective manager, leader and global citizen today. You’ll be part of a growing worldwide movement to achieve not only a sustainable future but a better one for all!
Expert teaching
You’ll be supported by a cross-disciplinary team of experts. The curriculum is informed by cutting-edge applied research on pro-environmental and pro-social business, developed both internationally and locally within the University of Derby. As part of the degree, you’ll have the opportunity to work with our research centres, such as:
Sustainable Business and Green Growth Research Cluster
The Centre for Supply Chain Improvement
Centre for Business Improvement
Social, Cultural and Legal Research Centre
The Centre for Contemporary Hospitality and Tourism
Environmental Sustainable Research Centre (ESCR)
Experiential and Services Marketing Research Cluster
Visitor Economy Research Group.
You’ll also have the opportunity to become members of various research and industry networks such as the Low Carbon Business Network.
Postgraduate Open Event
Join us at an upcoming Postgraduate Open Event, where you will get the opportunity to meet our expert academics and find out more about your course.
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
Book your Postgraduate Open Event
What you will study
You’ll study modules such as:
The Case for Sustainable and Ethical Business
Sustainable and Ethical Business Strategy
Leading Sustainable and Ethical Change
Sustainable and Ethical Business Operations and Marketing
Sustainable Workforce and Wellbeing
Sustainable and Ethical Finance and Accounting
Independent Study: Research Methods
Independent Study: Dissertation.
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
How you will learn
Throughout the programme, you will encounter a diverse range of teaching methods fostering a learning environment that supports engagement, a sense of belonging and a collaborative community. You will be challenged to look beyond the status quo and to seek innovative, effective and where possible, game-changing approaches to responsible business management practice. You will do this through methods such as:
tutor facilitated learning with structured opportunities for discussion, reflection and planning for industry application
learning opportunities identified and taken directly from business/industry case studies or live briefs to form module assessments
business improvement projects/leadership projects
guest lectures by industry experts, academic practitioners and researchers to allow exploration and discussion around issues, opportunities, challenges and best practice
action learning sets and inquiry-based learning activities
use of simulations, Generative AI and game-based learning
specific responsible business/leadership/management research
critical review of emerging themes in academic and professional literature
critical reflection and reflexive practice learning portfolios.
Who will teach you
Orla Kelleher
Programme Leader
Orla Kelleher
Orla is a Senior Lecturer in Leadership and Strategy, who works in the Executive Education and Enterprise Development Department of the University's College of Business, Law and Social Sciences.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
If applying for this programme, you will need to meet the University of Derby general entry requirements for a master’s degree. Applicants will normally be in possession of a UK 2.2 (or above) bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification from a recognised British or overseas Institution listed on ENIC-TI. All subjects are considered, but possession of degrees or relevant experience in related subjects will be advantageous.
If English is not your first language, we will need to see that you have an English language capability of IELTS 6.5 (with 5.5 in each skills area) or equivalent.
Fees and funding
2024/25 (August 2024 - July 2025)
Type
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,450  for the full course*
£1,050 per 20 credits
International
£14,900 for the full course
N/A
Please note
fees normally increase in line with inflation and the University's strategic approach to fees, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The total fee you pay may therefore increase after one year of study.
* UK full-time fees paid within one academic year are rounded down to the nearest £50 if applicable
Additional costs and optional extras
About postgraduate awards
Please note
at postgraduate level, you’ll need to gain the following number of credits in total to obtain the respective awards. If you have any questions please
contact us
.
Award
Credits
Postgraduate Certificate
60 Credits
Postgraduate Diploma
120 Credits
MA or MSc
180 Credits
This means you will gain 180 credits in total to complete the full MA or MSc. If you are studying part time you will normally complete your studies over two or three years, depending on the course structure.
Funding your studies
Find out more about fees, postgraduate loans and support you may be entitled to.
Find out about funding your studies
Find out about funding your studies
Alumni discount for Derby graduates
We offer a discount on postgraduate course fees for all Derby alumni.
Find out about the Alumni discount
Find out about the Alumni discount
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Carbon Literacy Certification with the Carbon Literacy Project is included as part of your fee.
International student scholarships
We have a range of scholarships and discounts available to international students which can be used together to offer a reduction in your tuition fees.
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
Find out if you're eligible for an international scholarship
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
Apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply directly to the University
Guidance for international applicants applying for a postgraduate degree
Careers
You’ll be well suited to support businesses to develop their sustainability across a range of sectors. The programme also specifically provides Carbon Literacy certification which is a critical and much sought-after skill in supporting the wider business community in meeting Net Zero targets.
The programme also fosters your development as a responsible leader or manager and business practitioner with the mindset, knowledge, skills and professional competencies to support the transition to a more responsible, sustainable global economy.
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Other courses you might like
MSc Sustainable and Ethical Business Management
MBA Global and MBA Global Finance