Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/theatre-courses/technical-theatre-performance-design-ba-hons/

Technical Theatre and Performance Design BA (Hons)  - Theatre - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Theatre
Technical Theatre and Performance Design BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Technical Theatre and Performance Design
BA (Hons)*
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
* This course is
subject to validation
✕
What does ‘subject to validation’ mean?
We are continually looking at enhancing our courses to ensure they are up to date and relevant. This means we may add new courses or update existing courses in our portfolio. As this happens, the courses are advertised as ‘subject to validation’ to make you aware that the course you are looking at may not yet be finalised, or is undergoing changes.
Any course listed as ‘subject to validation’ is in the final stages of approval. Validation is a rigorous process undertaken with academic staff, students, independent subject experts and employers to ensure the course is current, of high quality, and able to prepare students well for their future employment or further study.
Success through validation is not guaranteed, which is why courses are highlighted as ‘subject to validation’. In the event the course is significantly amended, or does not meet the necessary requirements for a successful validation, we will get in touch to support you in finding a suitable alternative, either at the University of Derby or at another provider.
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 3 Years
UK fee
£9,535 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
112
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
W443
Start date
September
Location
Derby Theatre
Markeaton Street, Derby Campus
Develop your practice in conjunction with students from our BA (Hons) Theatre Arts and MA Applied Theatre and Education, as well as other Derby students and external partners. The programme embeds partnerships with tech and other partners, where you’ll develop your Createch (creative digital) skills within theatre and performance. Sustainable theatre production, accessibility, inclusivity, civic, and community engagement are at the core of our Programme curriculum. Additionally, there is a wide scope for experimentation, innovation and development of practice-research and independent projects.
Expert teaching
The course tutors maintain close industry links and are members of the Association of British Theatre Technicians (ABTT) and committee member of the Society of British Theatre Designers (SBTD), PDEC (Performance Design Educators Collective) and members of OISTAT (International Organisation of Scenographers, Theatre Architects and Technicians). They have links with companies as well as personal contacts with myriad design and technical practitioners currently working in industry and are recognised internationally for their research in the field of performance design.
Practical learning at Derby Theatre
Your course will be delivered at
Derby Theatre
, a fully equipped, professional theatre and major live performance venue, allowing you to gain valuable industry experience and contacts as you learn. To find out more about the work that Derby Theatre do outside of the University, please visit
their
YouTube Channel.
Derby Theatre - the UK's unique professional, producing and learning theatre
As a Learning Theatre, Derby Theatre provides a unique opportunity for students to learn to their craft by working alongside both academics and theatre professionals in the heart of a professional producing theatre, to develop your skills in technical theatre or performance.
Students, academics and artists work, create and learn side by side at Derby Theatre. All decisions about the development of both the art and the learning opportunities are made together. At every stage, there is huge potential in the crucible of the arts, learning and research combining to both underpin and inform our future work.
Derby Theatre provides an extraordinary platform for real life learning to take place, not only through the exciting main stage and studio programmes, but also through the work that the Theatre does with young people, young people in care, emerging artists and the community. Graduates of the programme can also be supported by our Artist Development Programme, In Good Company, which is part of a large regional funding programme.
Modules, topics and themes
You will work to speculative and live briefs to be part of creative and technical teams working on ‘in house’ productions at Derby Theatre and other venues or environments. Working in Derby Theatre you will get the chance to be embedded and learn from theatre professionals, to work alongside them, to understand how the whole theatre making process works, to have immediate access to staff to ask questions. New Digital and Virtual Technologies, creativity, collaboration, communication, organisation and time management skills are developed at all levels of the Programme.
As a graduate from this course, you will be a confident designer and/or technician, familiar with the creative possibilities of existing and emerging digital technologies with a particular focus in Theatre and Performance (lighting, sound, video, Computer Aided Design (CAD), Extended Reality (XR) – such as AR and VR; Artificial Intelligence (AI) and content generating tools), low-fi technologies (related to experimental constructions) and tools such as model making, drawing and theatre mechanisms. This course will enable you to use a selection of these technologies fluently. At the same time, you will be equipped with valuable managerial skills including stage management and production management, which will enhance your capacity to realise your ideas within specific timeframes and enhance your freelance, enterprising and entrepreneurship capabilities.
Modules are being confirmed for this programme for September 2024.
Celebrating student and graduate talent
The photos above are from the production WELFARE: A Derby Theatre Professional and Community production, a play by Abi Zakarian and directed by Sarah Brigham, Chief Executive and Artistic Director at Derby Theatre. WELFARE showcased the blend of Derby Theatre’s professional produced theatre strand and its community engagement work. This production also embodied the learning theatre ethos and ambition and included 12 University of Derby graduates and current students who took on various professional and non-professional roles, from performing in the show to a range of creative and backstage roles.
"From day one our Theatre students are immersed in the busy working life of a professional theatre. They develop the skills and knowledge required of a theatre practitioner, but just as importantly they acquire real-world experience in a working environment that prepares them for employment in the theatre industry." Kit Lane, Senior Lecturer
Photo credit: Pamela Raith
The course has allowed me to develop my skills and understanding by putting them into practice on numerous shows and productions in Derby and surrounding cities.
Dominic Murray
Technical Theatre graduate
Aaron Mace, BA (Hons) Technical Theatre
"I chose to study a degree at Derby thanks to the outstanding facilities they have on offer. Due to the fact they have their own theatre, I’ve had the opportunity to gain real life learning by working in a professional theatre for the 3 years of my course. This has given me networking opportunities I’ll be able to take with me outside of the University and experiences working on big, main house productions that look great on my CV."
Aaron Mace, Technical Theatre graduate
You may be interested in similar undergraduate courses within
Theatre and Dance
:
Theatre Arts BA (Hons)
University of Derby Theatre Programmes' production of Darknet by Rose Lewenstein. Photography credit: Sarah Blanford.
Build, Create, Innovate
Whether it's computing, photography, or engineering, our top-tier facilities — including a new suite of recording studios and a £12 million STEM Centre — provide the perfect setting to excel.
Discover your campus
Discover your campus
What you will study
You will study areas of focus and content including:
Areas of focus
Contemporary Theatre and Performance
Stage Technology
Stage, Production & Project Management
Design-led Theatre and Performance
Performance Design
Interactive Storytelling
Content
Lighting, Sound and Projection Design
Ethics, Exploration, and Application of AI, XR {eXtended Reality} (incl. VR {Virtual Reality}, AR {Augmented Reality} & MR {Mixed Reality})
Sustainability in Theatre Production
Stage Management and Production Management
Costume and Set Design for Theatre and Performance
Design for site-specific theatre and public spaces
Non-linear and immersive narrative development
Practice-Research and the context of practice
Research and Development and Experimentation across technologies
Creative Coding
Collaboration
Being industry ready
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
You will work to live and speculative briefs ranging from microprojects to full-length performances, installations and events. Teaching is through a combination of practice-led, studio-based exercises, workshops, performances and lecture or seminar activity.
You will learn from expert lecturers who are also live performance professionals and artists, as well as from visiting companies, industry professionals and guest lecturers.
You will be part of creative and technical teams working on ‘in house’ productions at
Derby Theatre
, and other venues or environments.
Previously, students have had the opportunity to learn by working within their own student-led theatre company with full professional technical support and mentoring.
In Year 2 working within a group, you will respond to a brief created by your academic team in collaboration with a stakeholder (such as a theatre or tech partner) who is at the forefront of the field. You will be expected to work collaboratively with your peers to realise the brief and reflect critically on your individual experience.
There will also be the opportunity to take part in masterclass residencies and engage in a variety of field trips that will enhance your learning experience. Field trips in the past have included visiting the Prague Quadrennial of Performance Design and Space, backstage tour and shows at The National Theatre, London gallery visits, and visits and tours at Alton Towers.
New digital, immersive and virtual technologies, creativity, collaboration, communication critical thinking, organisation and time management skills are developed at all levels of the programme through a variety of briefs.
Develop@derby
will help you build your personal, study and employability skills.
How you are assessed
Assessment is through a range of methods including creative portfolios, presentations, written coursework, practical workshops and public performance.
People you will meet
You will be taught by practising professionals with expertise in their own specialist areas of technical theatre.
Kit Lane
– Senior Lecturer. Over 25 years professional theatre experience. Kit has been a Production Manager for over 100 productions in the UK both in London's West End and internationally as well as being a Video Designer with dozens of professional designs nationally and internationally.
Cath Badham – Lecturer. Over 25 years as a professional Stage Manager working at theatres across the country including; The Sheffield Crucible, Nottingham Playhouse and The Royal Shakespeare Company.
Visiting companies, artists and theatre professionals as guest lecturers and mentors will be part of your learning experience.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Dr Christina (Xristina) Penna
Programme Leader
Dr Christina (Xristina) Penna
As Programme Leader and Senior Lecturer on the BA (Hons) Technical Theatre and Performance Design, Dr Penna is bringing over twenty years of professional performance design expertise and her research to teaching within Derby Theatre, c...
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
112
A Level
BBC
BTEC
DMM
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English Grade 4/Grade C (or above) or equivalent qualification
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits with 45 at Level 3. Distinction: 15 credits, Merit: 24 credits, Pass: 6 credits.
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,535 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Use of theatre workshop and all technical equipment in the Derby Theatre
2 national field trips
Discounted tickets to Derby Theatre during studies
Here at Derby, we provide excellent learning resources, libraries and specialist laboratories and studios
Some Personal Protective Clothing (PPC)
The programme uses Adobe Creative Suite which is installed on all Macs in MS102 and MS012 at Markeaton Street and students are provided with an individual Adobe Creative Cloud subscription for home use
To support their professional and skills development, students are provided with a subscription to LinkedIn Learning which offers over 13,000 courses and tutorials, including professional accreditations, in a wide range of creative, business & technology disciplines
Optional costs not included in your fees
Additional course related publications (approx. costs £100).
Specialist software/hardware (costs up to £1500. The majority of software is provided for free on campus.)
Students would be expected to build up their own tools for practice in the profession over the period of study on their degree.
Final year project costs (costs determined by student £100-£300).
Travel for work placement opportunities (costs will vary dependant on location).
Extra costs may include optional field trips (approx. cost £200-£400).
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Graduate from this programme as a multidisciplinary designer and/or technician familiar with the creative possibilities of existing and emerging digital technologies alongside traditional theatre tools and techniques. You will be able to explore the potential of theatre and performance in both text-based productions and expanding practices such as socially engaged, immersive, site-specific, design-led performance, performance installation, exhibition design, sound design, and event design. This will provide
you
with the creative, critical, and technical soft and hard skills that are expected at Industry level for becoming a successful free-lancer,
employee
or progression to postgraduate study
.
Notable Graduates
Richard Gerver
, who studied Theatre Arts at Derby and has become a best-selling author, award-winning educationalist, acclaimed public speaker, and adviser to governments and major corporations across the globe. “There was a sense that anything is possible at Derby," says Richard. "We were studying in an atmosphere where risk-taking, creativity and entrepreneurship were the norm. It gave me a love of learning which has stayed with me.”
Dan Clarkson
graduated in Technical Theatre in 2016 with a special interest in sound. He has subsequently worked at a number of venues including
Birmingham Old Rep
and
The Donmar Warehouse
in London.  He has also undertaken tours with shows as diverse as
The Circus of Horrors
and
Here Come the Boys
.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
This is a new course so the data displayed via Discover Uni is for students studying in another subject area.
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Theatre Arts BA (Hons)
Music Production BSc (Hons)
Light and Live Event Engineering BSc (Hons)