Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/undergraduate/theatre-courses/theatre-arts-ba-hons-foundation/

Theatre Arts with Foundation Year BA (Hons) - Theatre - University of Derby
Study
Undergraduate
Undergraduate course search
Theatre
Theatre Arts with Foundation Year BA (Hons)
Book your Open Day
Book your Open Day
Undergraduate Course
Theatre Arts with Foundation Year
BA (Hons)
Apply
Apply
Order your prospectus
Order your prospectus
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Course description
What you will study
How you will learn
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Careers
Course details
Study options
Full-time: 4 Years
UK fee
£9,250 per year
(2025/26)
International fee
£16,900 per year
(2025/26)
UCAS points
72
(September 2025 entry)
UCAS code
W444
Start date
September
Location
Derby Theatre
Your course will be delivered at
Derby Theatre
, a fully equipped, professional theatre and major live performance venue, allowing you to gain valuable industry experience and contacts as you learn. To find out more about the work that Derby Theatre do outside of the University, please visit their
YouTube Channel.
This contemporary theatre and performance programme will develop your theatre and performance skills such as acting, directing and devising for your career as a professional theatre artist. You’ll have plenty of opportunities to showcase your work and you may be involved in performances regionally, nationally and internationally.
This dynamic and exciting theatre arts programme is taught by practising professional artists with expertise in their own fields. Built around process, experimentation and risk taking you will encounter a range of practices to explore and develop theatre making and performance skills. An exciting part of your studies will be the professional work experience within Derby Theatre or partner organisations which will contribute to the development of your professional portfolio. You will take part in a number of public performances across your years of study and in a variety of venues, including main house and studio theatre spaces, off-site in the community, schools, and art centres.
Top
25
for student satisfaction
Drama, Dance and Cinematics subject area, Complete University Guide 2025
Top
25
for student experience
Drama, Dance and Cinematics subject area, Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
2
nd
for satisfaction with teaching
Drama & Dance, Guardian University Guide 2025
The learning theatre model was a big part of why I chose to study at Derby, I’ve forged important relationships with people in the industry as well as experts who are willing to guide you.
Dylan Bull
BA (Hons) Theatre Arts graduate
Derby Theatre
The UK's unique professional, producing and learning theatre
As a Learning Theatre, Derby Theatre provides a unique opportunity for students to learn to their craft by working alongside both academics and theatre professionals in the heart of a professional producing theatre, to develop your skills in technical theatre or performance.
Students, academics and artists work, create and learn side by side at Derby Theatre. All decisions about the development of both the art and the learning opportunities are made together. At every stage, there is huge potential in the crucible of the arts, learning and research combining to both underpin and inform our future work.
Derby Theatre provides an extraordinary platform for real life learning to take place, not only through the exciting main stage and studio programmes, but also through the work that the Theatre does with young people, young people in care, emerging artists and the community. Graduates of the programme can also be supported by our Artist Development Programme, In Good Company, which is part of a large regional funding programme.
#ThisIsDerby award winning project
Derby Theatre has won the Excellence in Arts Education Award at the UK Theatre Awards in 2019 and the Guardian University Award 2020 for Social and Community Impact in recognition and celebration of the #ThisIsDerby project. Delivered by Derby Theatre and other cultural and sports organisations in the city, including Derby County Community Trust, Cultural Campus: Derby's Cultural Education Partnership and the City's Sports Forum, the project provides opportunities for young people to take part in high-quality arts, sports and cultural activities across the city and aims to develop their essential life skills.
University of Derby wins Guardian University Award for #ThisIsDerby
The Social and Community Impact award recognises the work by a partnership initiative involving Derby Theatre to bring cultural education and events to Derby city’s young people.
Read the full story
Read the full story
Celebrating student and graduate talent
The photos above are from the production WELFARE: A Derby Theatre Professional and Community production, a play by Abi Zakarian and directed by Sarah Brigham, Chief Executive and Artistic Director at Derby Theatre. WELFARE showcased the blend of Derby Theatre’s professional produced theatre strand and its community engagement work. This production also embodied the learning theatre ethos and ambition and included 12 University of Derby graduates and current students who took on various professional and non-professional roles, from performing in the show to a range of creative and backstage roles.
"From day one our Theatre students are immersed in the busy working life of a professional theatre. They develop the skills and knowledge required of a theatre practitioner, but just as importantly they acquire real-world experience in a working environment that prepares them for employment in the theatre industry." Kit Lane, Senior Lecturer
Photo credit: Pamela Raith
Abby's experience as a Theatre student
Watch the video below to find out more about Abby's experience of studying Theatre at the University of Derby.
View BA (Hons) Theatre Arts at the University of Derby video transcript
As an aspiring theatre maker and director, I have been able to develop and refine my craft. I’ve performed in several studio performances and directed my own adaptation of a production. I’ve also secured a graduate opportunity for paid professional work.
Charlotte Jolliffe
BA (Hons) Theatre Arts graduate
Derby Theatre
Our students have a rare and exceptional learning experience at Derby Theatre. We are one of the only universities in the country to own and run a professional producing and receiving theatre.
Take a look at the theatre
Take a look at the theatre
View Study at Derby Theatre video transcript
Derby Theatre wins Excellence in Arts Education Award at UK Theatre Awards
Derby Theatre has won recognition of its learning theatre vision and innovative This is Derby project.
View the full story
View the full story
What you will study
Back to Module List
Code:
Please note that our modules are subject to change - we review the content of our courses regularly, making changes where necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects.
Undergraduate Open Days
The best way to find out if studying at Derby is right for you is to experience an Open Day. Get a feel for the city and campus, tour our first-class facilities and see where you could be living.
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
Book your Undergraduate Open Day
How you will learn
This Theatre Arts programme involves a combination of practice-led, studio-based exercises and lecture or seminar activity. There will be major performance projects, study of devising strategies, case studies and analysis of movements and practices in the 20th and 21st centuries. You will learn through workshop presentations, rehearsal strategies, directing and dramaturgy, new theatre writing and contemporary performance practices. The work will be underpinned by research, academic criticism and the professional production programme of Derby Theatre. You will carry out coursework that will be subject to academic criticism both written and practical.
Teaching is through a combination of practice-led, studio-based exercises, workshops, performances and lecture or seminar activity. You will learn from expert lecturers who are also practising artists, as well as from theatre professionals based at Derby Theatre and visiting companies and lecturers. There will also be the opportunity to take part in masterclass residencies and engage in a variety of field trips.  You will have the opportunity to learn by working within your own student-led theatre company with full professional technical support and mentoring. The work will be underpinned by the professional production programme of Derby Theatre.
Assessment is through a range of methods including written coursework, presentations, creative portfolios, assessed rehearsals, practical workshops and public performance.
Helping you reach your full potential
Our Personal Academic Tutoring programme supports your academic journey, helping you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
Explore the programme
→
✕
Personal Academic Tutoring
At the University of Derby, every student is assigned a Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) from the very start of their degree journey. This dedicated tutor becomes a key figure in your academic life, offering guidance, support, and insight to help you make the most of your university experience. Whether it's through one-to-one meetings or more informal catch-ups, your PAT will work with you to explore your strengths, address any challenges, and help you achieve your full potential. This relationship is designed to ensure you're not just succeeding academically, but also growing as an individual, developing the skills and confidence you'll need for your future career.
Your PAT will provide tailored advice to support your academic journey, whether that's by discussing your work, helping you set goals, or exploring career options. These regular meetings give you the space to reflect on your progress, understand where improvements can be made, and build on your strengths. At Derby, we want you to feel both challenged and supported. Your PAT will encourage you to push your boundaries, think critically about your work, and develop a proactive approach to your studies.
But it's not just about coursework. Your PAT will also help you identify extra-curricular opportunities, whether that's joining clubs, gaining work experience, or developing new skills outside of your course. These experiences not only enhance your CV but also give you the confidence to tackle future challenges. In short, your Personal Academic Tutor will be there to guide you every step of the way, ensuring you leave university with more than just a degree — but with a wealth of experiences, skills, and the knowledge that you're ready for the next chapter of your life.
Who will teach you
Cameron Jinks
Programme Leader
Cameron Jinks
Cameron is a Senior Lecturer in Commercial Photography.
View full staff profile
→
Entry requirements
2025 entry
These are the typical qualification requirements for September 2025 entry.
Contextual offers
may apply to students who meet certain criteria.
✕
Contextual admissions
At the University of Derby, we aim to attract the very best students to join us and to support their progression to university to ensure they reach their full potential and achieve their ambitions. We believe the very best students come from all backgrounds and we want to build a community that reflects our society.
What is a contextual offer?
Contextual offers are used by universities and colleges to take account of a student’s individual circumstances. Employing contextual offers at the University Derby will allow our admissions team to identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and be an exceptional Derby student. This makes the application process fairer and builds confidence in students about their ability to be part of our academic community.
We will use the information in an application form and may either reduce grade requirements or give extra consideration when deciding whether to give a contextual offer. We will also support these students through information, advice and guidance, outreach activities and on-campus visits before and during the application process.
What is the criteria?
Typical criteria may include one or more of the following:
Students who are care experienced
Students who are estranged from their families
Students who are refugees or asylum seekers
Students whose parents/carers are in the UK armed forces
*Please note students need to declare they meet one of these criteria on their application.
Find out more about our admissions policies
Requirement
What we're looking for
UCAS points
72
A Level
DDD
T Level
Pass
BTEC
MMP
GCSE
GCSE Maths and English are preferred, however if you don't have these qualifications you will be able to undertake Maths and English at Level 2 as part of your course of study
Access to HE
Pass Access to HE Diploma with 60 credits: 45 at Level 3 with a minimum of Distinction: 0, Merit: 30, Pass: 15
Offers will be made initially based on your application, including predicted grades and/or grades you have already achieved. You may be given the opportunity, within your offer letter, to submit a portfolio. If you submit a strong portfolio we will make you an unconditional offer, to reflect the quality of your work and your potential.
Additional entry requirements
Portfolio: Recommended -
view portfolio details
English language requirements
IELTS: 6.0 (with at least 5.5 in each skills area)
Fees and funding
2025/26
Full-time
Part-time
UK
£9,250 per year
N/A
International
£16,900 per year
N/A
Further information about our fees and support you may be entitled to
.
Additional costs and optional extras
✕
Additional costs and optional extras
We're committed to providing you with an outstanding learning experience. Our expert teaching, excellent facilities and great employability prepare you for your future career. As part of our commitment to you we aim to keep any additional study costs to a minimum. However, there are occasions where students may incur some additional costs.
Included in your fees
Study visit to the RSC and National Theatre
Here at Derby, we provide excellent learning resources, libraries and specialist laboratories and studios
The programme uses Adobe Creative Suite which is installed on all Macs in MS102 and MS012 at Markeaton Street and students are provided with an individual Adobe Creative Cloud subscription for home use
To support their professional and skills development, students are provided with a subscription to LinkedIn Learning which offers over 13,000 courses and tutorials, including professional accreditations, in a wide range of creative, business & technology disciplines
Mandatory costs not included in your fees
Correct clothing for practical classes - if not already owned £20 - £30
There will be occasions when you will be expected to attend exhibitions, screenings, performances and festivals. You will need to budget for these over each academic year
Optional costs not included in your fees
Additional course-related publications (approx. costs £100)
Specialist software/hardware (costs up to £1500)
Final year project costs (costs determined by student £200-£600)
Travel for work placement opportunities (costs will vary depending on location)
We provide full details of all course fees, but extra costs may include field trips (approx. cost £200-£400)
How to apply
Please look at our
application deadlines
before you apply.
✕
When should I apply?
Our
undergraduate
and
postgraduate
course pages will show the intakes that are available and open to applications. It's best to apply early so you can secure your place and beat the rush.
Once we have received your application and supporting documents (such as qualifications or references), we will review it and contact you within 4 weeks to let you know if you have been successful or not.
Our aim is to support all students to have the best possible opportunities to succeed and so our application and enrolment deadlines are in place to ensure you stand the best chance of doing so.
Joining the programme later may harm your chances of success on your course. It is therefore vital that you take note of the dates and ensure you submit your completed application and subsequent enrolment in time.
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught deadlines
Please note some courses may have an earlier induction, teaching and enrolment deadline date.
If your course operates a gathered field or pooled admissions process there may be an earlier application date. Please check your individual course page for further details.
UK students
If you are in Year 13 and applying for a full-time undergraduate course (including our joint honours courses), we recommend that you apply through UCAS.
Apply through UCAS
If you are applying to study part-time, or already have your qualifications, or wish to join at Year 2 or 3, you should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
International students
Find your agent
Apply through UCAS
Apply directly to the University
Careers
Students from this discipline area regularly go on to successful careers in film, television and theatre industries for example as actors, directors, theatre crew, teachers, artistic directors of their own theatre companies and other arts professionals. Alternatively, many students go on to postgraduate study and employment in a wide variety of professions like marketing or public relations.
Be inspired by Andy's journey to employment in the below video:
View Starting my own theatre company video transcript
Notable graduates
Please note these are graduates from the subject discipline, not the course, as it is new
Graduate Danny Hendrix stars in War Horse
Danny Hendrix graduated in 2014 in Theatre Arts and is currently in the National Theatre touring production of the iconic First World War drama, War Horse. His tour of War Horse will visit Hong Kong and New Zealand – and his 2019 will end with a month of performances in Paris.
Danny is playing Billy Narracott, Seargent Klebb and Heine in the National Theatre tour, which is also visiting a string of theatres in the UK and Ireland.
His acting career has previously taken him to Australia to perform in Sydney Opera House and seen him appear in the West End and touring production of David Walliams’s Gangsta Granny.
If you’re interested in studying theatre at Derby, Danny has some tips for you: “Get involved in any way you can, not just in performance but also backstage and in technical roles, because the industry demands it. Use your time wisely and give 100% but also enjoy every second – I had the time of my life."
Danny Hendrix in Tall Stories: The Snow Dragon
“The University provided me with opportunities and stepping stones that enabled me to put myself out there into the theatre/performing business. My lecturers inspired me in many different ways by challenging my abilities and skills but also by having faith in my talent and abilities to undertake such large roles.” - Danny Hendrix
More notable graduates
Simon Stephens: Director (Theatre) - Brit School
Adam Buss: Chief Executive – Derby Quad
Janthi Mills: Executive Director - Hull Truck Theatre
Richard Gerver: Inspirational Business Speaker
Rachel Delooze: Actress
Angharad Jones & Laura Ford: Artistic Directors of Fifth Word Theatre Company
Cara Nolan: Theatre director
Ben Redfern: Actor/Choreographer
Amber Taylor: Stage Manager
Daniel David: Director/Actor
Andy Nairn was Head of Production and Premises at Derby Theatre.
The Andy Nairn Bursaries in Technical Theatre
is a fund set up across three Midlands Theatres to support, encourage and enable young people to pursue a career in Technical Theatre.
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story.
We're here to help prepare you for life after university.
Learn how we support
Learn how we support
96%
of UK graduates are in employment or further study.
Top 5
for employability.
Uni Compare Annual Student Review Rankings 2025.
87%
of UK graduates say their current activity is meaningful.
✕
Getting you career ready
Your degree is only part of your story. We're here to help prepare you for life after university. We'll tailor your talents and help you build the tools that will set you apart when you are ready to look for your first graduate role.
Our staff have valuable and varied experiences in the workplace and beyond. And we have great links to industry. This means you'll have opportunities to apply your learning. You'll find work experience that's directly relevant to your studies, including placements and real projects set by businesses.
Our promise
We promise to provide an inclusive approach; supporting, advising and guiding you on your employability journey to success. We will listen to your needs and signpost opportunities for you to engage with up to three years after graduation.
Find out more about our Careers and Employability services
Contact us
If you need any more information from us, eg on courses, accommodation, applying, car parking, fees or funding, please
contact us
and we will do everything we can to help you.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Teaching hours
Like most universities, we operate extended teaching hours at the University of Derby, so contact time with your lecturers and tutors could be anytime between 9am and 9pm. Your timetable will usually be available on the website 24 hours after enrolment on to your course.
Course updates
The information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication but course content, costs and other individual course details do change from time to time and are updated as often as possible, so please do check these pages again when making your final decision to apply for a course.  Any updated course details will also be confirmed to you at application, enrolment and in your offer letter.
If you are thinking about transferring onto this course (into the second year for example), you should contact the programme leader for the relevant course information as modules may vary from those shown on this page.
Discover Uni
Full-time
Other courses you might like
Theatre Arts BA (Hons)
Technical Theatre and Performance Design BA (Hons)
Applied Theatre and Education MA
Film and Screen Production MA
Light and Live Event Engineering BSc (Hons)