Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/theory-and-practice-of-appendicular-reporting/

Theory and Practice of Appendicular Reporting - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Theory and Practice of Appendicular Reporting
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Theory and Practice of Appendicular Reporting
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Module details
Module code
7RD538
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
40 credits
Next course date
January
Location
Derby Campus
Module description
This module provides a structured approach to learning about the anatomy, physiology and pathophysiological processes that affect the appendicular skeleton (including pelvis). You will engage with self audit, reflective practice and address any knowledge gaps that you and/or your peers identify, in order to build a comprehensive portfolio demonstrating your ability to produced radiographic reports is a structured, concise and accurate manner.
The majority of the study you will undertake will be in the workplace. You will complete a portfolio which will include a log book and evidence of reflective practice.
This module will allow you to work alongside your peers to investigate and address and gaps in your knowledge as a group. The result of this problem-based learning approach will contribute to your portfolio and help develop your skills to continue to pursue further self directed learning upon completion of the programme.
The advanced practice framework has been considered, successful completion of the module content and assessment methods will help underpin your application for advanced practice status.
Who this course is for
This course is for Health Professionals who wish to produce formal reports on radiographic images. You will have a minimum of 2 years' postgraduate experience and have regular access to radiographic images and radiology support.
Learning outcomes
On successful completion of the module, students will be able to:
Correlate clinical manefestations to radiological appearances and pathophysiological processes of the appendicular skeleton (including pelvis)
Apply diagnostic reasoning and interpretation of radiological appearances to produce accurate clinical reports of the appendicular skeleton
Engage in reflective practice and address personal knowledge gaps
Critically evaluate the current state of knowledge and evidence base for radiographic imaging protocols in practice
Entry requirements
Normally, applicants must:
Hold a science or health related degree at 2:1 or above
Have English language skills equivalent to IELTS level 7
Have 2 years post-registration experience
Hold current registration with the HCPC or NMC
Empower your workforce with block bookings
Take advantage of a short courses block booking to upskill your employees. Our short courses run on-campus and online and include new legislation and other up-to-the-minute issues. Get in touch today and we will tailor a package to meet the needs of your business.
Block booking for business
Block booking for business
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.