Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/theoretical-considerations-in-the-diagnosis-and-management-of-osteoporosis/

Theoretical Considerations in the Diagnosis and Management of Osteoporosis - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Theoretical Considerations in the Diagnosis and Management of Osteoporosis
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Theoretical Considerations in the Diagnosis and Management of Osteoporosis
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
Module details
Module code
7RD521
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
September, January
Duration
16 weeks
Location
Distance learning
Module description
About this module
You may be working in a general setting wishing to know how to identify and manage those at risk of osteoporosis or in a specialist osteoporosis or falls setting as an introduction to further specialist study.
Healthcare professionals are required to effectively diagnose and manage osteoporosis - a disorder which is increasing in significance and impact on society. Practitioners must be able to critically evaluate current practices and fully appreciate both their diagnostic and therapeutic intervention if competency and effective care is to be assured.
This module provides you with an appreciation of the patho-physiological processes involved and enable you to engage and critically reflect on the identification, diagnosis, treatment and management of this condition and hypothesise on its future impact on the healthcare agenda and society.
Who this course is for
All health and social care professionals
Course team
Marie Cook - Senior Lecturer
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Critically review the epidemiology of osteoporosis and fragility fracture considering the impact on the individual and society
Critically review the issues relevant to an effective diagnosis of osteoporosis and how it links to the identification of the patient at high-risk of fragility fracture.
Analyse treatment and management options available to health care practitioners in the care of patients with osteoporosis and at risk of fragility fracture
Critically evaluate the quality and delivery of care provided within their clinical practice.
Undertaking specialist study of this nature will support both specialist and general health and social care practitioners to become agents of change. The theoretical underpinning and supporting evidence for managing osteoporosis provides a sound platform for all practitioners in preventing and managing fractures.
Entry requirements
You must hold a professional health care qualification and be eligible to register with the relevant professional board.
Students without a BA/BSc should be a health care professional and have a minimum of two years clinical experience in Osteoporosis, DXA, Falls.
Fees and funding
If you are funding your own study, the module price will be confirmed shortly.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.