Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/tissue-viability---principles-and-practice/

Tissue Viability - Principles and Practice - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Tissue Viability - Principles and Practice
Apply now
Apply now
Professional Course
Tissue Viability - Principles and Practice
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
How to apply
Module details
Module code
6NU515/7NU513
Module level
Level 6 and 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
January
Location
Derby Campus
Module description
About this module
This module enables you to develop skills in assessment and planning, which will address issues related to Tissue Viability within Primary and Secondary Care settings, based on principles of best practice for associated conditions. It also enables you to develop a critical understanding of the contributory factors to tissue breakdown, including chronic disease and immobility.
Strategies will be employed to develop knowledge and understanding of the subject, alongside professional and practical management of individual conditions.
Who is this course for
Nursing and Paramedic.
Learning outcomes
On completion you will be able to:
Critically evaluate the contributory factors which impact upon one aspect of tissue breakdown/trauma.
Critically analyse current policy and practice, in order to identify the necessary skills required to effectively manage tissue viability problems.
Formulate recommendations in order to improve care delivery in relation to the aspect of tissue breakdown / trauma identified.
How to apply
Level 6
LBR applications
If you are applying for an LBR funded place, please Apply directly to the University.
Find out more about LBR and whether you are eligible for an LBR Level 6 course
Apply directly to the University
Self-funded applications
If you are financing your study yourself, please contact Admissions on
01332 591167
or email
askadmissions@derby.ac.uk
to secure your place
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.