Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/online/transfusion-medicine/

Transfusion Medicine - Online short courses - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Online short courses
Transfusion Medicine
Book now
Book now
Short course
Transfusion Medicine
Book now
Book now
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Online course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Learning outcomes
Fees and funding
Course requirements
Online course details
Price
£175 (includes VAT)
Next course date
Open now
Duration
3 units, 3 hours of study per unit
CPD hours
9 CPD hours
Delivery
Self-guided online learning
Location
Online
Online course description
Ideally suited to individuals with a background in biomedical science or working in the healthcare profession, this online course will allow you to develop your knowledge and understanding of the transfusion process. It will cover blood group systems, donor screening, blood donation and component preparation, along with immunohaematological aspects of transfusion.
The course features transfusion science including basic scientific laboratory immunohaematology, blood processing and transfusion. It will also look at governmental policies in monitoring, management and reporting of adverse reactions from transfusions.
Who is the course for?
Though open to anyone, this short course is ideally suited to those working in the healthcare sector and will be of interest to those in professional and support roles including:
nurses
healthcare workers
Social care workers
allied health care professionals
This professional development course will provide you with:
The knowledge and science behind blood collection for transfusion
An appreciation of donor requirements from blood donation and screening, and the preparation and storage of blood components
An understanding of legislation and guidelines concerning transfusion management
Structure, certificates and assessment
You will study this course 100% online. It comprises a range of activities including:
reading extracts from texts
completing quizzes
watching short videos
undertaking written tasks to reflect on your learning
There is no obligation for you to undertake every activity but being involved in all aspects of the course will help you to achieve a well-rounded knowledge about transfusion medicine.
There is no graded assessment. Instead, you will receive a badge for each completed Unit, and then upon completion of the whole course, you will be awarded with an e-certificate.
An accredited provider of the CPD Standards Office
We are proud to be an accredited provider of the
CPD Standards Office
for our online short courses and free courses, demonstrating that they conform to CPD best practice and are appropriate for inclusion in a formal CPD record.
Course units
The course is made up of 3 units, each will require approximately 2-3 hours of study. You can prioritise the order in which you study each module.
Unit 1 - Basic transfusion science
This unit will explore the basic concepts in transfusion sciences, including major blood group systems, the importance of antibodies in transfusion, the hazards associated with transfusion and haemovigilance.
Unit 2 - Laboratory testing of blood and its components
In this unit we will understand donor requirements, blood donation, the screening of blood and the preparation of different components and their storage.
Unit 3 - Transfusion to patients
This unit will describe in detail the British Committee for Standards in Haematology (BCSH) guidelines for the use of blood and its components. It will also explain the use of information technology systems in the blood transfusion practice.
Learning outcomes
By completing this course you will:
Understand the genetics, inheritance, structure and role of red cell antigens
Gain valuable knowledge about the different blood components, and their preparation and screening prior to transfusion
Develop an understanding of the legislation and guidelines regarding transfusion and the management of blood transfusion
Fees and funding
Fee:
£175 (includes VAT)
Course requirements
The course is widely available for anyone to take part in regardless of age, location or education status.
However, there are some basic requirements. You will need access to the internet whether it is on your PC, tablet, mobile or other electronic devices, as well as a valid email address to register with our online learning environment in order to take part in the course.
You will need to agree to the terms and conditions before you start the course which will be available when you enrol.
Learners should have an understanding of the English Language and the ability to study in English.
How to enrol
All of our short courses are delivered through an easy-to-use online learning platform, which you can enrol from directly.
Dr Vadivel Parthsarathy
Course author
Vadivel Parthsarathy is a Senior Lecturer in Biomedical Sciences at the University of Derby.
View full staff profile
View full staff profile
Contact us
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Course policies
Learner charter
Cancellation policy
Code of conduct for learner discipline
Terms and conditions