Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/treatment-modalities/

Treatment Modalities  - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Treatment Modalities
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Treatment Modalities
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Module details
Module code
7OT524
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
September, January
Duration
11 weeks
Location
Distance learning
Module description
About this module
This module includes modalities used by occupational therapists and physiotherapists, providing a unique opportunity for cross professional development. This will foster greater understanding of fellow professionals’ roles in the multidisciplinary hand therapy team and enhance team homogeneity.
This module is studied by distance learning (online with work-based activities) and is assessed by an assignment. Tutorial support is provided via telephone, email or online.
Who this course is for
Occupational therapists and physiotherapists
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Investigate and critically evaluate a variety of treatment modalities used in hand therapy.
Justify the choice of treatment modalities in individual patients and evaluate how the application of a modality may change in response to biopsychosocial factors.
Critically evaluate the benefits and limitations of the treatment modalities used in hand therapy.
Critically reflect on their own current professional practice.
Entry requirements
An undergraduate degree (at least 2:2) or a diploma in occupational therapy or physiotherapy, or an equivalent qualification;
An English Language GCSE grade C or equivalent;
You’ll also need to currently work in the clinical field of hand therapy.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.