Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/ultrasound-of-the-foot-and-ankle/

Ultrasound of the Foot and Ankle - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Ultrasound of the Foot and Ankle
Apply now
Apply now
Professional Course
Ultrasound of the Foot and Ankle
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Module details
Module code
SC-HSC-0003
Next course date
Thursday 28 November 2019
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Lecture/workshop days - dates/times
10am - 4.30pm
Module description
This interactive study day will combine a mixture of presentations, live demonstrations and hands-on practical scanning experience under the guidance of expert MSK Sonographers.
The topics which will be covered include anatomy, physiology, clinical assessment, normal and pathological ultrasound findings and reporting, as well as a presentation focusing on ultrasound within rheumatology.
Who this course is for
To attend this course you must already be an experienced ultrasound user or a relevant point of care specialist.
Entry requirements
To attend this course you must already be an experienced ultrasound user or a relevant point of care specialist.
Fees and funding
The module price will be confirmed shortly.
How to apply
Please visit our
online shop
to book and pay for your place.
Who will teach you
Claire Carter
Programme leader
Claire Carter is a Senior Lecturer and Business Relationship Manager at the University of Derby. A key part of Claire’s role is to lead on a big lottery partnership supporting our local community in Chesterfield to raise aspirations and increase health and wellbeing within the community.
View full staff profile
View full staff profile
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Course: Claire Carter (Module leader)
marketing@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591044
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.
Other courses you might like
Ultrasound of the Hand, Wrist and Elbow
Ultrasound of the Hip and Knee
Ultrasound of the Shoulder