Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/ultrasound-in-early-pregnancy-assessment/

Ultrasound in Early Pregnancy Assessment - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Ultrasound in Early Pregnancy Assessment
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Ultrasound in Early Pregnancy Assessment
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
Learning outcomes
Course details
Course code
7RD522
Course level
Level 7
Course credits
20 credits
Next course date
October
Location
Online
Course description
About this module
This module is for you if you are a sonographer, nurse, midwife, obstetrician or gynaecologist providing routine/emergency early pregnancy assessment services.
The aim of this CASE accredited module is to produce a competent, reflective and autonomous practitioner capable of safe and effective use of ultrasound in the assessment of early pregnancy.
The module focuses on development of competence in a broad range of first trimester ultrasound referrals. This includes recognition and interpretation of ultrasound appearances of normal and high risk pregnancies and the assessment of early pregnancy complications.
200 total learning hours for the module include five full days of on campus teaching / tutorials and directed study tasks. In addition, you will require access to a suitable clinical placement for a recommended minimum of 14 hours (two days) per week supervised scanning practice for the duration of the module.
To enrol to this module, you must:
be studying or have completed the Principles of Medical Ultrasound module (or an equivalent qualification).
have access to a recommended minimum of two days per week supervised scanning practice with a named ultrasound mentor.
Entry is subject to discussion with module leader and completion of a practice based agreement.
Who is this course for
All Health Professionals.
Learning outcomes
On successful completion of the module you will be able to:
Analyse the needs of the patient, relatives and attendees, reflecting critically on the effectiveness of their communication skills and level of care provided.
Demonstrate the complex skills necessary to plan and perform high quality trans-abdominal and trans-vaginal early pregnancy ultrasound examinations safely, competently and professionally, according to the current evidence base.
Interpret, critically evaluate and report upon the ultrasound findings, where necessary, arrange, advise or undertake further investigations appropriate to local policies and contribute effectively to the multi disciplinary healthcare team.
Reflect critically upon the use of ultrasound in assessment and management of early pregnancy, the effectiveness of local early pregnancy ultrasound services, implications for patient management and where appropriate, propose alternatives for service improvement.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.