Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/mineral-products/concrete-technology-university-certificate/

University Certificate in Concrete Technology - Mineral courses - University of Derby
Study
Mineral courses
University Certificate in Concrete Technology
Apply now
Apply now
Professional Course
University Certificate in Concrete Technology
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Course code
CAAFH
Course level
Level 4
Course credits
60 credits
Next course date
January, September
Duration
1 year part time
Location
Enterprise Centre
Course description
The distinctive nature of this programme is represented by the flexibility of its design and delivery.  Its construction and innovative modes of delivery recognise the diverse and dispersed nature of not only the industry itself, but the potential student body it will serve.  Due to the geographical spread of the industry,  manufacturing sites and offices are often remote and isolated. Technical and operational staff very often spend a significant proportion of their time working outdoors, can be transient (with seasonal working activities sometimes playing a part) and they may also find that they are suddenly re-located, in some cases abroad.  The provision offered within this programme of study, has had to evolve to meet the needs of such learners: taking advantage not only of traditional teaching and learning techniques, but utilising the most advanced learning technology for teaching, learning, supervision and assessment.
Key Characteristics
The programme is designed to enable agile delivery of the teaching and learning activities. The programme delivery model comprises a blended distance learning model, which allows on-line learning material to be supported by face-to-face sessions
Delivery of face-to-face teaching is undertaken at the Enterprise Centre which provides a more corporate environment
Assessment strategies allow direct application of knowledge learned which is directly related to the workplace.
The programme enables the following opportunities:
Equips learners for shortfall in international, national and local development needs
Develops the learner’s knowledge and understanding of the Concrete sector and the context in which it operates, including global and environmental influences
Enables a learner to develop their intellectual breadth and be able to make integrative links across the various areas of their organisations
Increases capacity to learn, both on the programme and as independent lifelong learners following completion of the programme
Provides an academically rigorous and challenging programme of study aligned with the QAA Qualification Framework enhancing critical and reflective practice
Provides flexible learning opportunities in a diverse environment that widens participation.
Structure, certificates and assessment
Introduction to Concrete
Concrete is an important construction material. This module develops knowledge about aggregates, cement and concrete; and the standards, specifications and other requirements that apply to them.
It includes aspects such as the methods used to sample and test aggregates and ready mixed concrete in a safe way. In addition, the module will develop knowledge of the principles of concrete mix design; the methods of making and using ready mixed concrete; and knowledge of the techniques used to manage product quality so as to satisfy the needs of producers and their customers.
Properties of Concrete
This module develops detailed knowledge about concrete technology by detailed study of the standards, specifications and other requirements that apply to concrete and its constituents.
It will include the specifications and constituents used to ensure durable concrete in difficult environmental conditions. In addition, the module will develop knowledge of a range of other test methods that can be used to assess fresh and hardened concrete.
Health, safety and environmental aspects will be developed by a study of the management of these aspects during the design and management of construction.
Production, Use and Control of Concrete
This module develops knowledge about the use of and control of concrete used as a construction material.  It also includes a study of the particular requirements of concrete used in particular end-uses, including precast concrete products and pre-stressed concrete units.
In addition, the module will develop knowledge of the principles of assessing and repairing concrete structures; and an introduction to the concepts of sustainable and environmental impact of construction using concrete.
How you will learn
The programme is influenced by the principles of work-based learning. As such a flexible range of teaching and learning methodologies are used relevant to particular groups or practices. For example:
Face to face taught modules combining tutor input with structured opportunities for discussion, reflection and planning for workplace application
Learning opportunities identified and taken directly from the learner’s workplace situation
Action learning sets and other facilitated group activities
Individual reflection on learning
Technology enhanced learning using a sophisticated virtual learning environment (VLE).
At undergraduate level, the emphasis is on fostering independent learning, whilst providing a supporting environment in which to study at higher level. One of the key aims of any undergraduate programme is to produce an independent learner capable of properly managing their time and resources to identify issues, decide how to collect and analyse evidence and reach reasoned evidence based conclusions, and to subsequently present this information via various methods of communication (written and oral).
Entry requirements
The programme has been designed to appeal to a wide audience. Candidates applying for the programme are likely to fall into the following groups:
Employees in the cement, ready-mixed concrete and concrete products industries with significant experience but limited qualifications, wishing to improve their level of competence within the industry
Employees working in construction who already possess a higher education qualification in a related subject - civil or construction engineering, for example - but who need broader and deeper technical knowledge of concrete
Employees working in testing laboratories and associated professionals who wish to gain knowledge in concrete technology so as to strengthen the service that they provide to their internal or external clients
Employees from related supply and equipment manufacturing industries who wish to gain knowledge of concrete technology to better serve their customers.
Certain learners may be permitted direct entry at Module 2 i.e. given exemption from Module 1 if their qualifications reflect recent best practice.  Examples include:
The University of Derby Diploma in Quarry or Asphalt Technology
University of Derby ‘Mineral Products’ Foundation Degree (any one of five)
University of Derby Certificate of Credit in Construction Materials Technology
University of Derby Certificate of Credit in Ready Mixed Concrete Technology
One (or both) of the City and Guilds Parts 2/3 qualifications in Concrete Technology
Higher qualifications in civil engineering and associated subjects that include concrete technology as part of the syllabus
Programme staff will be happy to discuss and review this on an individual basis. Experience with current standards and specifications will be an important factor in that review.
You will be expected to provide copies of your certificates.
The following broad criteria applying for entry:
Learners are employed or have an affiliation with an employer.
Learners will have been nominated to attend following a review/discussion with their line manager and/or recruitment manager.
Learners will have been identified by the organisation as being able to succeed on the programme.
The selection of participants is consistent with the University’s equal opportunities policies and sensitive to legal obligations to avoid discrimination on the basis of gender, race or disability.
Learners can demonstrate English language capability to that of GCSE English Language, IELTS 6.0 or its equivalent as a prerequisite of enrolment on the programme.
Learners will complete an application form as provided by the University of Derby and meet the above requirements.
Learners must be at, or over the age of 18 upon the commencement date of their programme.
While the ultimate responsibility for ensuring that learners meet entry requirements and acceptance on to programmes rests with the University of Derby, employers typically nominate the majority of learners expected onto this programme.  The prior experience of learners is a key factor in programme design and development as such employers, potential learners, professional bodies, and key stakeholders have been consulted during the programme development stage.
Fees and funding
UK and EU students
£2,575
International students
£3,165
*These fees apply if you’re starting this course between September 2023 and August 2024. We recommend you check fee details with us though, as they can change.
How to apply
To apply please contact Ian Heritage at
i.heritage@concrete.org.uk
.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Application Contact: Ian Heritage
i.heritage@concrete.org.uk
+44 (0)1276 607140
Programme Leader: Dr. Nizar Ghazireh
N.Ghazireh@derby.ac.uk
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us