Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/mineral-products/road-surface-treatments-university-diploma/

University Diploma in Road Surface Treatments - Mineral courses - University of Derby
Study
Mineral courses
University Diploma in Road Surface Treatments
Apply now
Apply now
Professional Course
University Diploma in Road Surface Treatments
Apply
Apply
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Course description
Structure, certificates and assessment
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
How to apply
Course details
Course code
CAAHK
Course level
Level 5
Course credits
60 credits
Next course date
October
Duration
9 months part time
Location
Enterprise Centre
Course description
This course has been developed jointly by the Road Surface Treatments Association (RSTA) and the Institute of Asphalt Technology (IAT), so you can be sure it reflects best practice in the industry
This is the first university level academic qualification for the road surface treatments industry, so you’ll be part of an innovative initiative that will set you apart from others in the industry
Delivered by professionals from the industry, this qualification will develop a detailed knowledge of road surfacing and related activities in this complex area of construction
This programme is delivered through distance learning. Learning materials are delivered online and you will be supported by your tutor online and through phone support
Highways departments today are expected to deliver better pavements, minimum disruption and better journey time reliability.
However, they are faced with delivering this in challenging times with reduced funding, extreme weather changes, an ageing infrastructure and increasing regulations and bureaucracy.
This course will give you the tools to deliver on these issues by developing your technical skills.
Subject modules
Modules
Treating Surfaces & Maintaining Pavements - 5ZZBCV - 20 credits
Paving Materials - 5ZZBCW - 20 credits
Contracts Management - 5ZZBBX - 20 credits
Structure, certificates and assessment
The qualification is made up of three modules. The content for each of the modules will be released in stages throughout your period of study.
Paving materials
This module looks at the various paving materials that can be used, including detailed coverage of the design, manufacture and application of bituminous mixtures, environmental management and health and safety awareness.
Treating surfaces and maintaining pavements
This module focuses on the materials and binders that can be used to treat road surfaces, including the preparation, application and service life of these. You’ll also learn about assessing the condition of the road surface and applicable codes of practice.
Contracts management
This module will give you an operational overview of the management of contracts in relation to pavement and road surfacing. From tendering and formation of contracts through to completion and review of contracts, this module will give you a good understanding of the contracting process in the industry.
How you'll learn
This programme is delivered online through distance learning. Learning materials are delivered through our learning platform and you will get support from your tutor online and by telephone.
You will be assessed through five assignments which will be spaced throughout the study period, with a final examination at the end. The assignments will normally contain a number of questions for you to answer and you will normally be given three weeks to submit your work.
Entry requirements
If you have experience in the highways sector, as well as positive support from your employer, we will welcome your application.
If you have experience in the road surfacing industry, as well as positive support from your employer, we will welcome your application.
Learners must be at, or over the age of 18 upon the commencement date of their programme.
If you would like to find out more about this programme, please contact Dr Helen Bailey by email at
mineralproducts@derby.ac.uk
or by phone on
0800 678 3311
.
Fees and funding
UK/EU students
£2,355
International students
£2,880
*These fees apply if you’re starting this course between September 2023 and August 2024. We recommend you check fee details with us though, as they can change.
How to apply
Students should apply directly to the University.
Apply directly to the University
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Road Surface Treatments
mineralproducts@derby.ac.uk
01332 591066
(option 6)
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us