Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/vascular-ultrasound/

Vascular Ultrasound - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Vascular Ultrasound
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Vascular Ultrasound
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Module details
Module code
7RD523
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
40 credits
Next course date
October
Location
Online
Module description
About this module
This module is aimed primarily at healthcare professionals who wish to provide a full range of routine / emergency vascular ultrasound services.
The module is CASE accredited and it aims to produce a competent, reflective and autonomous practitioner capable of safe and effective use of ultrasound in the assessment of vascular referrals.
It focuses on development of competence in assessment of a broad range of peripheral vascular ultrasound referrals. This includes routine and emergency referrals and interpretation of ultrasound findings in common / complex vascular pathology, vascular screening and surveillance.
400 total learning hours for the module include seven full days of on campus teaching / tutorials and directed study tasks. In addition, you will require access to a suitable clinical placement for a recommended minimum of 14 hours (two days) per week supervised scanning practice for the duration of the module.
To enrol to this module, you must:
be studying or have completed the Principles of Medical Ultrasound module (or an equivalent qualification),
have access to a recommended minimum of two days per week supervised scanning practice with a named ultrasound mentor.
Entry is subject to discussion with module leader and completion of a practice based agreement.
Who is this course for
All Health Professionals.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.