Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/working-in-a-differing-field-of-practice/

Working in a Differing Field of Practice  - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Working in a Differing Field of Practice
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Working in a Differing Field of Practice
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Fees and funding
Module details
Module code
7NU515
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
September, January
Duration
26 weeks
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Module description
About this module
This module allows the student to experience the breadth of specialist public health service nursing provision. Reflective learning on practice, throughout the duration of the programme, provides opportunities to develop a deeper understanding and knowledge base about the wider implications of specialist public health practice.
It provides an opportunity for the student to produce a portfolio of evidential learning to meet the Nursing and Midwifery Council Standards of Proficiency, while working in a differing field of practice. This comprehensive portfolio of evidence demonstrates the skills and knowledge acquired through a critical lens. Combined with an ongoing action plan this module forms a firm foundation for the practitioners to meet their CPD requirements now and in the future.
Who is this course for
This programme is aimed at nursing practitioners who already hold the Specialist Community Public Health Nursing (Health Visitor / School, Nurse) Award.
Course team
Erica Lloyd
- Module Leader, Senior Lcturer and Senior Fellow HEA. Erica has worked in the NHS for over 30 years as a registered nurse, Specialist Community Public Health Practitioner (School Nursing) and Clinical Lead.
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
To complete a personal skills analysis by week four of the consolidated practice, which will allow you to benchmark your competency and proficiency to date, in order that progress can be noted throughout the course of study.
A portfolio containing evidence from all practice work undertaken and a report from the mentor confirming that the NMC Standards of Proficiency for Specialist Community Public Health Nursing have been met .This will show that the student has passed practice at the appropriate level and completed the specific time in consolidated practice as required by the NMC, thus enabling you to work across a wider remit of public health nursing practice.
The student will undertake self-assessment as they develop their reflective portfolio. This will allow for open discussion with the student, Practice Teachers, mentors and academic staff, regarding an action plan to aid successful completion of the module. You will be given constructive feedback that will help to develop your own critical thinking skills for future practice.
Entry requirements
You need to be a qualified nurse and registered with the NMC on the third part of the register as a School Nurse or Health Visitor.
Fees and funding
If you are funding your own study, the module price will be confirmed shortly.
Who will teach you
Erica Lloyd
Programme leader
As a Senior Lecturer in Post Graduate Nursing Erica has been part of the Specialist Community Public Health Nursing team since 2019. As Pathway lead for the School Nursing, she supports this cohort of students both academically and in practice.
View full staff profile
View full staff profile
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.