Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/work-based-learning---negotiated-module/

Work Based Learning - Negotiated Module - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Work Based Learning - Negotiated Module
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Work Based Learning - Negotiated Module
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Module details
Module code
7RD524
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
20 credits
Next course date
October, January
Location
Distance learning
Module description
About this module
This module will appeal to a wide range of healthcare professionals who wish to develop specialist knowledge on an individually negotiated topic relevant to service needs within their area of practice.
The aim of this work-based module is to enable you to explore in depth an area of theory that directly or indirectly influences your practice. To do this you need to be able to appraise material from diverse sources in order to develop specialist understanding. On completion of your theoretical research, you will be able to disseminate your findings to colleagues or service users etc to inform and develop practice.
This module focuses on your contribution to the development of the service in your particular area of practice and as such the indicative content will be negotiated on an individual basis though the use of a learning contract.
You will evaluate the needs of your own area of practice in order to identify an area for theoretical study. Following development of an appropriate investigative strategy, you will critically evaluate the theoretical perspectives of your investigation relative to both current and future service needs.
On completion of your study, you will disseminate your findings to a target audience (perhaps your staff team, managers or service users) via a suitable method such as a poster, written report, learning package or verbal presentation.
200 total learning hours - this module utilises a learning contract supported by online learning material as a flexible platform for independent study. Contact will be maintained on an individual ad hoc basis via e mail and telephone tutorials but with specified mandatory contact in approval of the learning contract and at the mid point of the module.
Who is this course for
All Health Professionals.
Learning outcomes
On successful completion of the module you will be able to:
Evaluate service needs of your individual workplace and identify and area for theoretical study.
Develop an appropriate investigative strategy for the selected topic.
Critically evaluate the theoretical perspectives of their investigation relative to both current and future service needs.
Present your findings in order to disseminate them either within the multi-professional team or to service users.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.