Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/online/working-with-vulnerable-people/

Working with Vulnerable People - Online short courses - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Online short courses
Working with Vulnerable People
Apply now
Apply now
Short course
Working with Vulnerable People
Apply now
Apply now
Contact us
Contact us
On this page
Online course description
Benefits
Fees and funding
Course requirements
How to apply
Online course details
UK/EU fee
£875
(2024/25)
‡
International fee
£875
(2024/25)
‡
Course level
Level 6
Course credits
20 credits
Next course date
27 January 2025
Duration
10 weeks
Delivery
Tutored online learning
Location
Online
Online course description
The ability to identify and work positively with vulnerable people is a core requirement within the health and social care arena. Managing and understanding the concepts of abuse, risk and vulnerability within both a historical and practical context is therefore a requirement. There is a duty to assess and protect vulnerable service users. Recent significant cases in the adult and child sectors have highlighted a lack of skills in identifying, assessing and managing risk.
In this course, you will cover a wide range of concepts including vulnerability, safeguarding, disability, inequality, poverty, mental health and substance abuse. The course will also introduce you to the policy, legal and ethical perspectives surrounding vulnerability and teach you how to identify, assess and manage risk within frameworks and theories.
Learning outcomes
On successful completion of the course, you will be able to:
Critically evaluate multiple dimensions of risk and vulnerability.
Collaboratively analyse the interrelationship between social agencies and practitioners to establish a framework of risk management
Course content
Political and social dimensions of abuse, neglect and violence
Hidden/underreported forms of harm
Familial violence
Violence towards children and vulnerable adults, partner violence
Ethnicity and cultural relativism
Serious case reviews
Recognition of signs and indicators of abuse (including antecedents and indirect indicators)
Risks and vulnerabilities in context
Models of assessment including risk assessment models and tools
Working with complexity, fear and uncertainty
Disability and barriers
Poverty
Fabricated and fictitious illness
‘Hidden’ contexts
Institutional abuse
Migrant and unaccompanied asylum-seeking children
Sexually exploited and trafficked children
Best interests decisions
Removal, reunification, rehabilitation
Alternative care provision
Development of plans that address risk and vulnerability and promote change
Balancing benefits of different interventions
Communicating across ages and building relationships
Assessment of capacity
The role and opportunities for therapeutic engagement.
Inter-professional perspectives and referrals.
Frameworks for action and planning
Challenges of objectivity, managing personal and professional responses
Primary, secondary and tertiary prevention strategies
Power inequalities and why they arise
Consequences of inequality
Power differentials
Law and Policy
Oppression
Stigma and stereotyping
Pace of study
For this short online course, we recommend about 20 hours of study per week to complete one 20-credit module over a 10-week trimester.
Assessment method
This course is assessed through 100% coursework with a range of methods, such as essays, research reports, presentations, group work and practical reports which will be handed in and assessed at the end of the 10 week trimester. There will be 1/2 virtual classrooms over the 10 week trimester and if you are unable to attend you will be able to download the session to view in your own time.
Benefits
Offset course credits towards another qualification
Once you’ve completed this course you may be able to offset the 20 credits towards our
online Integrative Health and Social Care BSc (Hons) Top-Up
. This would reduce the number of modules you would need to study and the total cost of the course.
Fees and funding
‡
2024/25 for new entrants
Starting between September 2024 and August 2025.
UK/EU fee:
£875
International fee:
£875
2025/26 for new entrants
Starting between September 2025 and August 2026.
UK/EU fee:
£925
International fee:
£925
About your fees
Prices are correct for the year of entry shown. These are subject to annual increase in subsequent academic years.
Course requirements
You will:
Be able to provide evidence of previous study at Level 5 or above in a related subject area including but not limited to health and social care, social work, health promotion or youth work
Be a health care professional with access to an environment where you will be able to apply your skills to achieve the individual course learning outcomes. This does not specifically need to be employment and could include voluntary work
English language qualification
You'll also normally require one of the following English language qualifications:
GCE O level English Language C
GCSE English C
If English is not your first language, or you have not successfully completed your highest level of qualification in English, you will need an English language qualification. For this course you will need at least one of the following:
IELTS 7.0
TOEFL: 600 (paper based), 250 (computer based) or 100 (internet based)
Pearson Test of Academic English: 66
Cambridge Advanced Certificate: Pass
London Tests of English: we accept level 4 for undergraduate courses
International GCE O Level English Language: Grade C
International GCSE English/English as a Second Language: Grade C
We may accept other equivalent English Language qualifications with supporting evidence so please provide full details with your application.
Find out more about our English language requirements
Documents to support your application
You'll need to provide:
Photo ID – this could be your passport or driving licence
NMC PIN
Written reference supplied on headed paper from either a manager, supervisor, tutor or teacher
Copies of certificates and transcripts or a letter of testimony for previous qualifications*
*Documents not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a certified translation by a professional translator/translation company. Each translation must contain:
Confirmation from the translator that it is an accurate translation of the original document
The date of the translation
The full name and signature of the translator, or an authorised official of the company
The translator’s contact details
A list of approved translators can be found on the
UK Government website
How to apply
Apply directly to the University.
Apply now
For support with completing your application,
view our guide to the application process
.
Contact us
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Other courses you might like
Integrative Health and Social Care (Top-Up) BSc (Hons)
Online short courses