Link: https://www.derby.ac.uk/short-courses-cpd/health-and-social-care/work-based-project/

Work Based Project - Health, Psychology and Social Care - University of Derby
Study
Short courses and CPD
Health, Psychology and Social Care
Work Based Project
Contact us
Contact us
Professional Course
Work Based Project
Contact details
Contact details
On this page
Module description
Learning outcomes
Entry requirements
Module details
Module code
7NU525
Module level
Level 7
Module credits
40 credits
Next course date
January
Duration
6 months
Location
Kedleston Road, Derby Campus
Module description
About this module
The arena of work can provide many opportunities to develop critical thinking abilities. One such area is the leadership of projects. The skills required for the management and leadership of projects are transferable skills from the workplace arena to the academic arena. It therefore makes sense to link work based project achievement to academic achievement.
The project is the primary route by which you undertake the module supported by a practice and academic facilitator. The project is linked to the module outcomes by negotiation whereby you identify how and where the project meets the outcomes. You must provide evidence showing how the project management has to meet the demands of practice and academic criteria.
Who is this course for
All Health Professionals, however applicants should contact the module lead to ascertain the suitability of this module for their professional role.
Course team
Julie Reynolds, nurse BSc (Hons) MA Ed
Learning outcomes
On completion of this course you should be able to:
Demonstrate originality and the ability to initiate, plan, implement and evaluate a project.
Critically evaluate how the learning gained has relevance to KSF dimensions relevant to their role.
Critically evaluate how the learning gained can contribute to the development of multi-disciplinary/professional practice.
To assimilate the knowledge gathered from the project into practice recommendations.
Entry requirements
Usually the applicant is required to have 5 years post professional qualification experience. Please contact the module lead for further advice.
Contact us
Enquiry
Email
Phone
Learning Beyond Registration (LBR)
lbr@derby.ac.uk
+44 (0)1332 591992
If you want to find out more about studying a short course, please
contact us
and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Contact us
Contact us
Additional information about your studies
Minimum numbers
Please note that this course is subject to minimum numbers in order to run.