Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/af-pathology-biomechanics-and-therapeutic-treatment-of-the-ankle-and-foot/

Skip to content
First level university master
A&F
Pathology, Biomechanics and Therapeutic Treatment of the Ankle and Foot
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
A&F - Pathology, Biomechanics and Therapeutic Treatment of the Ankle and Foot
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
A&F - Pathology, Biomechanics and Therapeutic Treatment of the Ankle and Foot
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Pathology, Biomechanics and Therapeutic Treatment of the Ankle and Foot
provides a complete educational offer and complex frameworks in this field.
Goal of the program is making professionals independent in acquiring all the main competences relating to diagnostic classification and resolution of the main foot and ankle pathologies, both simple and complex, congenital and acquired, benign and malignant.
Educational content
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Pathology, Biomechanics and Therapeutic Treatment of the Ankle and Foot
is a highly specialized course on foot and ankle pathologies. At the end of the educational path, professional acquire
all the competences concerning the different foot and ankle pathologies, both benign and malignant
: knowledge of the basic anatomy and biomechanics; patient’s functional and instrumental clinical assessment; conservative, rehabilitative and orthotic; surgical treatment (traditional, arthroscopic, arthrodesis corrective procedures), with specific reference to mini-invasive percutaneous, arthroscopic and prosthetic techniques, personalized for paediatric, adult, cancer, diabetic and sport trauma patients.
Course target and career opportunities
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Pathology, Biomechanics and Therapeutic Treatment of the Ankle and Foot
is addressed to specialized doctors or trainee specialists, nurses, physiotherapists, podiatrists.
Currently, there are many units of public, partner or private institutions where participants, following the Master, may be called to perform their profession or evolve their current ones, with a highly specialized role in: orthopaedics and traumatology, general, vascular, plastic, endocrinological surgery, and rehabilitative, sport and occupational medicine.
Course program
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Pathology, Biomechanics and Therapeutic Treatment of the Ankle and Foot
provides in-depth training on:
Anatomy
: systematic, topographic and surgical foot and ankle anatomy; foot and ankle physiology and physiopathology
Biomechanics
: principles of biomechanics and bioengineering of healthy and pathological tissues of the foot and ankle
Cancer
: epidemiology, pathological anatomy, diagnosis and treatment of benign and malignant neoplasms of foot and ankle
Traumatology
: indications, surgery techniques, complications of major foot and ankle traumas, arthrodesis and saving procedures
Prosthetic
: innovative technical aspects of instruments and prosthetic models for foot and ankle joints
District pathologies
: epidemiology, pathogenesis, medicine and conservative/surgical treatment (open, mini-invasive and percutaneous) of forefoot, midfoot and backfoot diseases
Tendinopathies and ligament injuries
: epidemiology, pathogenesis, medicine and conservative/surgical treatment of tendon and ligament injuries in foot and ankle sport trauma.
Neurological and rheumatological foot
: physiopathological and medical aspects, and treatment indications in the main neurological and rheumatological adult foot and ankle diseases
Orthoplastics
: indications, techniques, results and complications in plastic surgery for cancer, trauma and diseases of the foot and ankle
Physical and rehabilitative medicine
: indications, techniques and results of rehabilitative medicine for foot and ankle diseases and trauma
Bio-orthopaedics
: biological treatment solutions and biological substitutes in foot and ankle osteoarthritis.
Diabetic foot
: prevention and medical treatment of patients with diabetic and Charcot foot
Orthesis and podiatry:
orthesis technique principles in cancer, trauma or diabetic patients, and in podiatric and functional treatments
Nursing management
: pre-, intra- and post-surgery management; clinical follow-up and home care indications for patients who underwent foot and ankle surgery
Diagnostic radiology
: principles for radiological and ultrasound, diagnostic and treatment techniques in foot and ankle pathologies
FACULTY
The Faculty is comprised as follows:
Pietro Ruggieri
: Full Orthopaedics Professor – University of Padua
Raffaele De Caro:
Full Anatomy Professor – University of Padua
Stefano Masiero
: Full Rehabilitative Medicine Professor – University of Padua
Giampaolo
Fadini
: Full Endocrinology Professor – University of Padua
Carlo
Biz
: Associate Orthopaedics Professor – University of Padua
Andrea
Angelini
: Associate Orthopaedics Professor – University of Padua
Antonio Berizzi
: Associate Orthopaedics Professor – University of Padua
Carla Stecco
: Associate Anatomy Professor – University of Padua
Cesare Tiengo
: Associate Anatomy Professor – University of Padua
Francesco Oliva
: Associate Orthopaedics Professor – University San Raffaele di Roma.
Chiara Giulia Fontanella
: Associate Engineering Professor – University of Padua
Elisa Belluzzi
, Researcher Università di Padova
Antonio Volpe
: Foot & Ankle Clinic Abano Terme
Giorgio De Conti
: Radiology Unit Director – Padua University Hospital
Elisa Pala
: Medical Orthopaedics Director – Padua University Hospital
Giulia Trovarelli
: Medical Orthopaedics Director – Padua University Hospital
Alberto Crimì
: Medical Orthopaedics Director – Padua University Hospital
Elisa Pagliarini:
Medical Orthopaedics Director – Padua University Hospital
Mariachiara Cerchiaro
: Medical Orthopaedics Director – Padua University Hospital
Marina Bocchese
: Skin Lesion Specialized Nurse – Padua University Hospital
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2023/24 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
15
First instalment:
€
									1.822,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.000,00
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
Is there a minimum attendance threshold?
Students must attend at least 70% of the total course hours. Therefore, absences are allowed up to 30% of the entire course.
Will there be a traineeship/stage?
Stages and traineeship are held in the units, clinics and OR of the orthopaedics, cancer and trauma clinic UOC of the Padua University Hospital. Hands-on practice is given great relevance within the course.
The Stage is also extended to the multidisciplinary diabetic foot clinic, in the metabolism-related diseases unit. There will be a visit to the orthopaedic lab, in order to see how tailored-made orthosis are created.
How will the course be structured?
There will be lectures and accounts by consolidated experts in managing and treating foot and ankle pathologies, concentrated in short periods agreed with the professors and students. Due to the hands-on nature of the Master, only 10% of the lessons can be followed remotely.
Stages and practice sessions last one week.
The final exam will be oral, with possible dissertation discussion.
Classes start:
13/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.822,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Pietro Ruggieri - Vice Director Prof. Carlo Biz
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
UniSMART - Fondazione Università degli Studi di Padova
Email:
formazione@unismart.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top