Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/acams-clinical-anatomy-of-the-musculoskeletal-system/

Skip to content
Post graduate programme
ACAMS
Clinical anatomy of the musculoskeletal system
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
ACAMS - Clinical anatomy of the musculoskeletal system
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
ACAMS - Clinical anatomy of the musculoskeletal system
The
Course in Clinical Anatomy of the Musculoskeletal System
wants to provide continuous learning on the topics related to the anatomical and pathological aspects of the systems treated, with particular focus on finding and assessing clinical and medical-legal issues. The main purpose of the Course is providing further valid tools to be used in the different forensic fields (e.g. abuse, sudden death, medical liability, personal injuries and damage), to improve the identification of the physio pathological path that leads to death, the identification and assessment of medical errors, the estimate of any damage caused, especially in the case of multi-factor pathologies.
Educational content
The
Course in Clinical Anatomy of the Musculoskeletal System
covers the following topics: anatomical and pathological aspects, diagnostic imaging, damage assessment, physical rehabilitation and surgical aspects of the systems treated.
It explores clinical anatomy, physiopathology, diagnostic imaging, treatment of the relevant systems, and review of the morpho-functional conditions of the same. It provides a basis for integration with the most frequent pathologies in clinical practice, by tackling diagnostic imaging, surgical treatment, physical rehabilitation, and damage assessment aspects.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Course in Clinical Anatomy of the Musculoskeletal System
is addressed to medical anatomists, orthopaedics, physiatrists, medical examiners, plastic surgeons, sports doctors, general physicians, anaesthesiologists, radiologists.
The Course helps to coordinate the operation of all the specialists involved in these units, and is therefore addressed to all specialist doctors.
Course program
The program of the
Course in Clinical Anatomy of the Musculoskeletal System
is divided into the following modules:
ANATOMY 1
: medical anatomy of the musculoskeletal system, osteology, arthrology, myology.
DIAGNOSTICS
: clinical, instrumental and lab diagnostic basis, diagnostic imaging.
PATHOLOGICAL MEDICAL TREATMENT BASIS
PHYSICAL AND SURGICAL TREATMENT
: fundamentals of rehabilitation and surgical treatment, physiatry, orthopaedics, reconstructive surgery, surgical anatomy.
OCCUPATIONAL MEDICINE
: implication of occupational medicine, workplace ergonomics, damage assessment.
FORENSICS
: discussions on
case reports
, clinical cases,
role playing.
ANATOMY 2
: clinical and surgical anatomy updates.
HANDS-ON PRACTICE
: dissections.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
29/09/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
10
Maximum available spots:
100
Single instalment:
€
									672,50
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
Is there a maximum absence threshold?
Yes, attendance of at least 70% of all educational activities is required.
How will the teaching be organized?
Lessons will be in-person and will concern the following topics:
Fundamentals of anatomy and pathological mechanisms
Diagnosis, treatment and implications of occupational medicine
Forensic evaluation
It will also include workshops and project works to deepen the morphological aspects of the units covered, through hands-on and field-specific activities.
In-person lessons will be also available through dedicated online platforms
Does the Course provide CME credits?
Yes, proportionally to the course hours  attended.
Will there be any forms of facilitation?
Attendees enrolled in a Graduate School will be granted a discount on the registration fee equal to half the total cost of the Course (based on ranking). Specify this option on the resume attached to the application form. The maximum number of grad students that can benefit from this form of facilitation is 10.
Classes start:
09/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
7
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							672,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof.ssa Veronica Macchi, Prof. Raffaele De Caro
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Gabriele Veronica
Phone:
0498272317
Email:
veronica.gabriele@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top