Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/acf-accounting-corporate-finance/

Skip to content
First level university master
ACF
Accounting & corporate finance
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
ACF - Accounting & corporate finance
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
ACF - Accounting & corporate finance
The one-year professional Master in Accounting & Corporate Finance
, entirely taught  in Italian language, prepares professionals capable of using the competencies and tools of economics and finance to develop technical and managerial skills and improve decision-making and corporate processes.
The course focuses on the increasingly central topics of
financial statements
, corporate
finance
and
performance audits
in corporate decision-making processes. The need to develop and update the related competencies and knowledge is the basis of the educational path.
The purpose of the program is helping attendees acquire such specific competencies and develop relevant tools and concepts for this sector, through the constant alternation of theoretical lessons, practice, case studies and lectures.
Educational content
The course units of the professional Master in Accounting & Corporate Financ
e
cover the three following thematic areas:
Financial Statements Area:
it covers topics related to how to draft and interpret standard and consolidated financial statements, international accounting principles and risk management.
Performance Audit Area
: it covers topics such as corporate planning analysis, cost analysis, budgeting, transfer pricing and performance analysis multidimensional systems.
Corporate Finance Area
: it analyses topics such as capital budgeting, corporate evaluation, extraordinary growth finance, and also topics related to big data and business analytics.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Master’s Degree in Accounting & Corporate Finance
is addressed to:
People who already work in the administration, finance and control field, and want to update their knowledge, in order to become “business partners” for the other corporate areas.
Newly graduates who wish to complement their Bachelor’s Degree by acquiring
advanced knowledge.
Anyone without an accounting or finance background who wants to reposition themselves professionally and develop specific competencies, by mastering the tools and concepts typical of these roles.
The Master trains the following professional figures: junior and senior controllers; administrative directors; corporate consultants; performance audit managers; CFO.
Course program
The
Master’s Degree in Accounting & Corporate Finance
provides training on:
ACCOUNTING COURSE
Before the start of the lessons, there will be a 16-hour Accounting Course, mandatory for anyone without a BA in the field of Economics, or at least 2 years of work experience in the administrative/finance sector.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
It covers the financial statement drafting logic, with focus on the income statement, balance sheet and financial statement analysis and interpretation techniques.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS
It analyses the main investment evaluation techniques.
FUNDAMENTALS OF PLANNING AND CONTROL
It describes the techniques to develop contribution margin analysis, product cost calculation, budget planning and variance analysis implementation.
FUNDAMENTALS OF CONTROL, COST ANALYSIS AND BUDGETING
Illustrates techniques for developing contribution margin analysis, calculating product cost, defining budgets, and implementing variance analysis
INTERNATIONAL ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES
It covers the structure of accounting documents, according to the IFRS principles, and it focuses on the role of the Other Comprehensive Income and on tangible and intangible asset accounting.
COST ANALYSIS AND BUDGETING
It describes the techniques to develop contribution margin analysis, product cost calculation, budget planning and variance analysis implementation.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
It covers the topic of group governance and shows how to draft and interpret the consolidated financial statements.
STRATEGIC CONTROL: RESPONSIBILITY, INCENTIVES AND PERFORMANCE
It covers the topic of the organizational structure and the different types of existing organizations, with reference to their design principles and human resource evaluation.
STRATEGIC PLANNING
It covers industrial plan and business plan drafting techniques.
BIG DATA AND BUSINESS ANALYTICS
It covers the topic of how to use big data in order to collect useful information for supporting corporate decisions.
MANAGING THE RELATIONSHIPS WITH BANKS AND CORPORATE RATING OPTIMIZATION
It analyses the set of rules that regulate the credit business, and it focuses on the techniques that help assess and improve the creditworthiness of a company.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SYSTEMS
It analyses how to identify potential corporate risks and how they are related to performance evaluation.
MULTIDIMENSIONAL PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT AND ESG REPORTING MODELS
It addresses the topic of multidimensional systems for analyzing company performance and ESG reporting
MODELS AND TOOLS FOR CONTROL AND PLANNING
It illustrates the operational techniques for implementing control and planning tools in the company, also from a consultancy perspective.
CORPORATE ASSESSMENT AND EXTRAORDINARY FINANCE
It covers the topics of corporate assessment, acquisition and merging operations, dividend policies and financial structure choices.
CASH MANAGEMENT
It covers the models and operating tools to create and manage effective cashflow planning systems.
LISTING ON REGULATED MARKETS AND PRIVATE EQUITY
It covers the topics of Venture Capitals and Private Equity, buy-out leverage, corporate listing, and debt offering.
CORPORATE TAXATION
It covers the topic of tax management and accounting.
TRANSFER PRICING
It analyses the role of transfer pricing and the calculation techniques to identify and mitigate possible benefits and risks related to the transfer price policy adopted.
ANTI-LAUNDERING AND FRAUD PREVENTION
It analyses the suitable tools to understand and prevent corporate frauds.
IT LAB ACTIVITIES
IT LAB activities will include lessons and practice on how to use data structuring, analysis and reporting software to support corporate decision-making processes. The ACF Master’s Degree organizes three workshops:
One-day SAP lab. Through a partnership with the Keytech s.r.l. consultancy firm, all participants will learn how to use the ERP SAP, with the help of company simulations.
Half-day advanced Excel lab. During this workshop, we will go over Excel’s advanced data management and analysis functions.
Half-day lab with Tableau. During this workshop, we will learn how to use the Tableau software as a business intelligence tool.
All workshops are optional, and they will be held at the IT Lab of the Department of Economics and Management “M. Fanno”, Via Bassi 1, Padua.
Video pills
Below, some of the professors of the
Master’s Degree in Accounting & Corporate Finance
describe the content of their courses. Dive for a few minutes into the educational experience of our Master’s Course!
Teaching staff
Giacomo Boesso
, full professor of Business administration.
Fabio Buttignon
, full professor of Corporate finance.
Diego Campagnolo,
associate professor of Business organization.
Fabrizio Cerbioni
, full professor of Business administration.
Marco Ciabattoni
, chartered accountant and statutory auditor.
Eugenio Comuzzi
, full professor of Business administration.
Antonio Costantini
, ricercatore of Business administration.
Francis De Zanche
, partner of Adacta Advisory.
Michele Fabrizi
, associate professor of Corporate finance.
Marco Fasan
, associate professor of Business administration.
Elena Gaiani,
business consultant at Strategya.
Paolo Gubitta
, full professor of Business organization.
Tommaso Lazzarini
, business consultant at Adacta Advisory.
Giovanna Michelon
, professor of Accounting.
Giulia Milan
, partner at Buttignon Zotti Milan & Co.
Marco Minozzi,
business consultant at Strategya.
Francesco Naccarato
, partner at 110 Advisory.
Alessandra Nicastro
, business consultant at Adacta Advisory.
Antonio Parbonetti
, full professor of Business administration.
Sonia Parolin
, business consultant Adacta Advisory.
Emilio Passetti
, associate professor of Business administration.
Luisa Pastega
, chartered accountant and business consultant.
Michele Piazza
, partner at Strategya.
Gaetano Terrin,
partner at Studio Terrin & Associati.
Anna Trentin
, Company Consultant for Adacta Advisor.
Daniele Vanin
, accountant and auditor, Consimp Partner.
Matteo Zingales
, chartered accountant and statutory auditor.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Single course
ANTI-LAUNDERING AND FRAUD PREVENTION
The purpose of the course is defining the importance of the fraud prevention activities and analysing the tools to understand and prevent corporate fraud, with particular focus on laundering activities and the related consequences in terms of operation and corporate choices.
BIG DATA AND BUSINESS ANALYTICS: DATA MANAGEMENT AND DECISION-MAKING REPORTING
The course focuses on the use of large volumes of data (big data) to collect useful information and support corporate decisions. It will discuss how to find such data, organize them and analyse them, to collect information and transform big data into smart data.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: DRAFTING AND INTERPRETATION
The first part of the course covers the main topics on group governance and analyses the relations between group companies and group strategies. The second part analyses the consolidated financial statements drafting and interpretation techniques.
STRATEGIC CONTROL: RESPONSIBILITY, INCENTIVES AND PERFORMANCE
The course analyses the characteristics of the organizational structure and the different types of existing structures, with particular reference to their design principles; it will also cover the design criteria for a human resource performance measuring system.
CORPORATE TAXATION
The course covers tax management, with the primary objective of providing a detailed analysis of the current tax regulations and connect them to corporate choices. The topics include IRES, IRAP and mentions of advanced topics, such as the consolidated financial statements.
FUNDAMENTALS OF CONTROL, COST ANALYSIS AND BUDGETING
The purpose of this course is analysing the concepts and basic programming and control techniques in order to develop an analysis of contribution margins, full cost, operative budget definition, and deviation implementation, in a corporate reporting perspective.
CASH MANAGEMENT
The course covers concepts, models and operative tools to create and manage effective short and medium/long term cashflow planning systems, and the related management and performance impact to ensure a company’s creditworthiness.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: DRAFTING AND INTERPRETATION
The method shows the financial statements drafting logic (including the cash flow statement), using the national accounting principles. It also analyses the financial statement interpretation techniques, by reclassifying the accounting statements and creating indexes and metrics.
MANAGING THE RELATIONSHIPS WITH BANKS AND CORPORATE RATING OPTIMIZATION
The course analyses the set of rules that govern the credit business, and explores the data analysis techniques – both on the bank and on the corporate side – that help assess and improve creditworthiness.
STRATEGIC PLANNING: THE INDUSTRIAL PLAN
The purpose of the course is identifying the requirements and characteristics of the industrial plan, in order to clearly and effectively define a tool that summarizes and welcomes the strategic and operational aspects and the related economic-financial implications in corporate planning choices.
INTERNATIONAL ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND INTANGIBLE ASSET ASSESSMENT
After analysing the structure of the accounting documents drafted according to international accounting principles (IAS/IFRS), with particular focus on the role of the Other Comprehensive Income, the course explores the accounting principles for tangible, intangible and financial assets, according to the IAS/IFRS.
PLANNING AND CONTROL - ADVANCED
The course covers different management control and reporting aspects:
Module 1: Multidimensional corporate performance analysis systems
Module 2: Sales programming and control
Module 3: Sustainability reporting and non-financial communication
LISTING ON REGULATED MARKETS AND PRIVATE EQUITY
The course covers Venture Capital and Private Equity topics, and analysed the reference market and professional operators, characteristics and operative management. It also covers leverage buy-out (LBO), corporate quoting and structure debit issuance.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SYSTEMS
The course analyses the identification and management of corporate risks, and how they are related to corporate performance measuring and choices. Furthermore, it analyses the characteristics and trends of national and international corporate governance systems.
Transfer pricing
The goal of this course is analysing the role of transfer pricing and the related calculation techniques, from a technical and organizational standpoint, in order to identify the best choices to implement and the related implications in performance measurement.
CORPORATE ASSESSMENT AND EXTRAORDINARY FINANCE FOR GROWTH
The course introduces the main corporate assessment models and analyses acquisitions and mergers from a strategic, evaluation, process governance and risk management standpoint. It also covers the topic of disinvestments (demergers, transfers and bestowals) and of corporate renovations).
MULTIDIMENSIONAL PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT MODELS AND ESG REPORTING
The course addresses the topic of multidimensional systems for analyzing corporate performance and ESG reporting
Information
Thematic area:
Finance, Law and International relations
End of classes:
30/09/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
13
Maximum available spots:
45
First instalment:
€
									3.522,50
Second instalment:
€
									2.000,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
What are the requirements to access the Master's Degree in Accounting & corporate finance?
The ACF Master is a Level 1 course, therefore it can be accessed with a Bachelor’s Degree in any major. However, if you don’t have the admission requirements, you can still attend the Master’s Course as listener.
I'm interested in applying for this Master's Degree, but I don't have a degree in economics. Will this affect me in the selection process?
Not at all. Students from any majors can enrol in this Master’s Degree.
How are the lessons managed and what is the minimum mandatory attendance percentage?
Lessons are provided in dual mode (in-person and on the Zoom platform) and a 70% attendance is mandatory, including three weekends per month, on Friday (8 hours) and Saturday morning (4 hours), for a total of 12 hours a week.
Will there be a traineeship?
The traineeship is not mandatory to obtain the diploma; however, within the Master’s course, it is possible to complete an optional traineeship aimed at drafting the final project work.
How and when can I pre-register?
You need to wait for the publication of the admission notice in June, and follow all the instructions to pre-register to the course.
Classes start:
22/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
Dual-mode
Total enrolment fee:
€
							5.522,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Fabrizi Michele
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
UniSMART Fondazione Università di Padova
Phone:
3346005104
Email:
formazione@unismart.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top