Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/angio-angiology/

Skip to content
Second level university master
ANGIO
Angiology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
ANGIO - Angiology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
ANGIO - Angiology
The
Second-level short specialisation degree
in Angiology
prepares cardiologists, vascular surgeons, internists, general practitioners and other specialists with an interest in the vascular field to execute the most specific examinations in this field, according to standardized procedures, based on clinical appropriateness and therapeutic indications.
The course treats the standardized global approach, appropriate for
vascular patient
‘s analysis, considering, in particular, the different diagnostic sectors with
Doppler Ultrasound
and non-invasive methods on supra aortic trunks, neck venous vessels, upper limb arterial and venous vessels, aorta and big abdominal vessels, and lower limb arterial and venous vessels.
The Second-level short specialisation degree provides attendees with a high-level preparation in the
Medical Angiology
field, since it supplies theoretical and practical tools that make professionals independent in using Doppler Ultrasound diagnostic methods, and in the different artery and venous study sectors; moreover, it provides indications for the acceptance, therapeutic approach and follow-up phases.
The Second-level short specialisation degree in Angiology is held in partnership with the Padua Hospital, the UOC of Angiology, the UOC of Cardiology, and the UOC of Vascular Surgery.
Educational content
The course units of the Second-level short specialisation degree in Angiology lead attendees to acquire standardized procedures and appropriate applications of the Doppler Ultrasound and other non-invasive diagnostic methods, in
patients suffering from arterial and venous-lymphatic vascular conditions
.
Some of the most relevant topics include:
Diagnostic study sectors with Doppler Ultrasound
Non-invasive methods on supra aortic trunks, neck venous vessels, upper limb arterial and venous vessels, aorta and big abdominal vessels, and lower limb arterial and venous vessels.
Preparation is done through an understanding of pathophysiology, with a global approach to vascular diseases.
Course target and career opportunities
The Second-level short specialisation degree in Angiology is aimed at cardiologists, vascular surgeons, internists, general practitioners and other specialists with an interest in the vascular field.
Career opportunities include all those fields where expertise in the
clinical-instrumental execution with Doppler Ultrasound
is required, in patients suffering from vascular pathologies; moreover, attendees will acquire the ability to provide a diagnostic evaluation with a therapeutic approach to patients with arterial and/or venous and/or lymphatic vascular disease.
Therefore, the course also helps to improve interaction skills with Local Doctors, First-Aid Units, Vascular Surgeons, Cardiologists and Internists, through a global approach to vascular patients and by managing the patient’s diagnostic-treatment path.
Course program
The Second-level short specialisation degree in Angiology provides training on:
Clinical-instrumental
approach to vascular patients and in selecting and executing Doppler Ultrasound exams and other non-invasive instrumental diagnostic exams, as well as how to manage the follow-up.
A correct and standardized
clinical-instrumental
and/or non-invasive multi-instrumental approach for prevention, diagnostic and medical treatment purposes of vascular diseases, including possible surgical indications.
Standardized and independent
execution of Doppler Ultrasound
exams in the different sectors for patients suffering from vascular diseases, as well as the critical application of international guidelines, trials and practices.
Attendees will acquire theoretical-practical competencies on the use of the Doppler Ultrasound in the different
vascular disease study
sectors, through a standardized approach aimed at selecting the quali-quantitative measures in its application, and any medical and/or surgical treatment indications, through constant tutoring.
Podcast “L’arte delle vene”
“
L’Arte nelle Vene
” is a listening journey that combines art and medicine to learn more about chronic venous disease.
The Director of the Second-level short specialisation degree in Angiology and Director of the Angiology Department at the University of Padua Hospital, Prof. Giampiero Avruscio with Alessandro Cecchi Paone retrace in four podcasts the main historical moments related to chronic venous disease.
Podcast episodes:
Il realismo del Caravaggio. Segni e sintomi della malattia venosa cronica
Arte e medicina, un legame da scoprire e da raccontare
Klimt e le tre età della donna
Botero e il “picnic”. Fisiopatologia e fattori di rischio
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Second-level short specialisation degree according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
25
First instalment:
€
									2.122,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.400,00
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
When will the Second-level short specialisation degree start and how will it be organized?
The course will start on November 2024 and will comprise a theoretical part (with video-lessons made available on the Moodle platform and in asynchronous mode), and a 250-hour traineeship part.
Concerning the
theoretical part
, the video-lessons will be loaded on the Angiology Second-level short specialisation degree’s Moodle space, according to the lesson calendar (there may also be live/synchronous lessons on the Zoom platform, whose dates will be notified in advanced).
The
250-hour traineeship
will start in December 2024 and will be organized based on the attendees’ availability (before September 2025) and on the schedule of the Padua Hospital’s UOC of Angiology.
What does the traineeship entail?
Guided by a tutor, attendees will follow the clinical-diagnostic course of a patient (or suspected patient) suffering from vascular disease, from their medical history to the execution of the Doppler Ultrasound, to their “take-over” and follow-up.
Will there be a final exam?
Yes, every attendee will choose a topic they want to elaborate on, and will draft a
final Second-level short specialisation degree’s research paper
individually, with the help of an advisor professor identified by the University Department. The research paper will be presented in September 2025, before a Committee.
Classes start:
11/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
blended
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.522,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Giampiero Avruscio
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
UniSMART Fondazione Università di Padova
Email:
formazione@unismart.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top