Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/ars-andrology-reproduction-and-sexuality/

Skip to content
Second level university master
ARS
Andrology, reproduction and sexuality
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
ARS - Andrology, reproduction and sexuality
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
ARS - Andrology, reproduction and sexuality
The
Master in Andrology, Reproduction and Sexuality
provides training in the biological, genetic, embryological, psychological, nutritional, lab diagnosis and instrumental diagnosis fields, concerning reproductive physiopathology, clinical
andrology
, causes and treatments of testicle endocrine deficiencies, and related complications. It also provides competences on sexually transmitted diseases and gender inconsistencies.
Purpose of this Master
is to provide independent management through specific competences
for each professional figure. Doctors will cover the clinical aspects of all the topics treated. Biologists, biotechnologists and chemists will receive specific training on assisted reproduction; psychologists will delve into clinical-psychological and psycho-sexual aspects of those topics, while nutritionists will cover the topics from a nutritional and nutraceutical standpoint.
Formative content
The
Master in Andrology, Reproduction and Sexuality
provides training on lab diagnosis and instrumental diagnosis, concerning
reproductive physiopathology
,
clinical andrology
, causes and treatments of testicle
endocrine deficiencies
, and related complications. It also provides competences on sexually transmitted diseases and gender inconsistencies.
The Master includes 282 hours of lessons, 30 hours of lab practice and 250 hours of internship. Lessons will be held through a series of 3-day residential meetings.
Beneficiaries and employment opportunities
The
Master in Andrology, Reproduction and Sexuality
trains professionals with clinical-diagnostic and biological experience in
reproductive medicine
, based on the medical (endocrinology, urology, gynaecology, food sciences), biological (biology, biotechnologies, embryology, food sciences) and psychological specializations involved in this sector.
At the end of the Master, the knowledge acquired will help students
carry out
clinical, care and research activities
in public and private Reproduction, Andrology and Endocrinology Medical facilities, including those units dealing with Sexual Medicine. Also, the medical, biological and psychological skills may be applied in fertility clinics, concerning general andrological competences, and fertility preservation and in vitro fertilization techniques.
Programme
The
Master in Andrology, Reproduction and Sexuality
provides specific training on the following topics:
ANDROLOGY ASPECTS IN METABOLIC AND THYROID PATHOLOGIES
Study of endocrine issues in patients with metabolic and thyroid pathologies
SEMINOLOGY, EMBRYOLOGY AND CRIOBIOLOGY OF GAMETES
Gametes and embryo cryopreservation analysis and techniques
UROLOGICAL DISEASES IN ANDROLOGY
Surgical treatments for fertility, sexuality and gender inconsistencies
ENDROCRINOLOGY AND GENETICS IN ANDROLOGY
Endocrine and genetic diagnostic of infertile males
REPRODUCTIVE BIOTECHNOLOGIES
Gametes and embryo analysis
PHYSIOPATHOLOGY OF MALE INFERTILITY
Physiology and physiopathology of the hypothalamus, hypophysis-testicle and seminal tract alterations.
GENDER AND SEXUAL MEDICINE
Sexual disorders in gender medicine
MICROBIOLOGY AND VIROLOGY IN HUMAN REPRODUCTION
Couple infections and infertility in medically assisted procreation
CLINICAL AND EXPERIMENTAL ANDROLOGY
Diagnostic and experimental aspects of male infertility
INSTRUMENTAL DIAGNOSIS IN ANDROLOGY
Ultrasounds and invasive exams
MEDICALLY ASSISTED PROCREATION TECHNIQUES 1
IUI, FIVET and ICSI techniques: clinical aspects
MEDICALLY ASSISTED PROCREATION TECHNIQUES 2
IUI, FIVET and ICSI techniques: clinical aspects
DIAGNOSTICS AND TREATMENT OF UROGENITAL TRACT DISEASES
Diagnostic imaging and surgical treatment
ENDOCRINE AND INFECTIVE DISEASES IN MEDICALLY ASSISTED PROCREATION TECHNIQUES
Hormonal and gamete selection treatments in patients with viral infections
GAMETES AND EMBRYO CULTURE METHODS
Egg culture, egg in vitro maturation, embryo and blactocyte culture
METABOLIC DISEASES AS CAUSE OF INFERTILITY AND SEXUAL DYSFUNCTIONS
Diabetes and metabolic syndrome indications concerning andrology, fertility and sexual dysfunctions
TESTICLE CYTOLOGY AND MALE INFERTILITY TREATMENTS
Spermatogenesis cells. Cytological charts in azoospermia and in severe oligozoospermia
NUTRITION AND FOOD SUPPLEMENTS IN INFERTILITY AND SEXUALITY
Nutritional and nutraceutical approaches to treating infertility and sexual disorders
MEDICALLY ASSISTED PROCREATION TECHNIQUES WITH CRIOPRESERVED AND DONATED GAMETES
Techniques to use cryopreserved gametes from autologous and heterologous donors in medically assisted procreation
PSYCHOLOGICAL ASPECTS IN SEXUALITY, REPRODUCTION AND GENDER IDENTITY
Diagnosis and treatment of psychological disorders in infertility, sexual disorders and gender inconsistencies
High level faculty
The Master is characterized by highly professional partners, renowned at national and international level, in the
reproduction and fertility preservation medicine
sector. In particular, the “9.baby” centres, “Centro di PMA del Centro di medicina di San Donà di Piave (VE)”, “Donna Salus, Bolzano”, “Centro di PMA e Preservazione della fertilità, AOUI Verona” and “SODC PMA, AOU Creggi” represent leading institutions for scientific and clinical research in the field of assisted reproduction and gamete cryopreservation techniques. These internationally renowned facilities develop study protocols shared with major reproductive medicine hubs.
Moreover, the
Faculty
includes some of the most important specialists from leading Italian University, specializing in sexual medicine, metabolic diseases, gender diseases, and nutritional medicine experts. The Professors include opinion leaders in the reproduction sector, such as Prof. Alessandra Andrisani and Dr. Andrea Borini, in the andrological urology, such as Prof. Massimo Iafrate and Prof. Giacomo Novara, and in nutrition, such as Dr. Francesco Francini.
DISTINCTIVE FEATURE OF THE COURSE
Some of the aspects that characterize the Master include attendance in clinics and in clinical-diagnostic activities, and in cell biology and molecular biology labs. Students will have the chance to assist to ultrasound diagnostic sessions, gonioscopy sessions and laser treatments. There will also be the chance to attend the Master’s partner medically assisted procreation centres.
Access to the seminology and molecular biology labs and to the clinics is agreed with the Director of the Andrology and Reproductive Medicine Unit, and with the heads of the facilities.
Only observational, non-treatment activities and clinical assessment will be carried out on patients, concerning seminology and cryopreservation, testicle cytology, molecular biology, reproductive genetics, reproductive system ultrasounds, sexually transmitted diseases, sexual dysfunctions and gender inconsistencies.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
10
Maximum available spots:
30
First instalment:
€
									2.122,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.400,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
Is attendance mandatory?
Yes, attendance is mandatory for at least 70% of the course hours.
Will there be any online access to the lessons?
Physical attendance at the lessons and internships is required, unless binding institutional commitments or health conditions (duly certified) require distance learning. Therefore, online lessons shall be granted only on exceptional and documented cases, to be defined well in advance.
Are the clinics and labs of the structure open to students?
All the labs and clinics of the hosting structure can accommodate the students, upon prior agreement with the Director and the Master’s Administrative Office of at least 15 days.
During the internships, will there be any patient care activities?
Students may only carry out observational activities in the clinics and labs. However, during the internship, there will be hands-on activities on lab samples.
How will the lessons be organized?
They are interactive collegial lessons, during which each topic can be discussed both during its presentation and during debate moments. The breaks (coffee breaks, lunches and work dinners) involving both students and professors may be partially devoted to delve into specific topics and establish new work relationships.
Classes start:
20/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.522,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Andrea Garolla
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Alessandro Turetta
Phone:
049 8218518
Email:
alessandro.turetta@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top