Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/assie-nursing-care-in-intensive-and-emergency-areas/

Skip to content
First level university master
ASSIE
Nursing care in intensive and emergency areas
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
ASSIE - Nursing care in intensive and emergency areas
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
ASSIE - Nursing care in intensive and emergency areas
The First-level short specialisation degree in Nursing Care in Intensive and Emergency Areas provides the skills necessary for
nursing care management in critical situations for adult patients, in hospital and non-hospital settings.
In-class activities are focused on the acquisition of advanced cross-sectional skills, such as identification, planning, implementation and assessment of advanced care interventions; communication abilities; multi-professional team-working skills.
The diversified traineeships help students acquire specific advanced competencies, such as:
advanced airway management
(weaning, intubation with supraglottic airway devices),
ultrasound techniques
(eco-fast, peripheral vascular access),
advanced hemodynamic monitoring, renal replacement therapy management, care-related infection containment strategies, multi-trauma and brain-injured patient management
.
Educational content
The course units of the First-level short specialisation degree in Nursing Care in Intensive and Emergency Areas include
400 hours of classroom learning
, including hands-on workshops and simulation activities,
and 300 hours of apprenticeship in matching critical area operating units
, at the University Hospital of Padua and affiliated institutions (e.g., AULSS 6).
Course target and career opportunities
The
First-level short specialisation degree
in Nursing Care in Intensive and Emergency Areas
is addressed to all professional nurses with a Bachelor’s Degree or equivalent title; it is also conditionally open to undergraduates of the November-December 2023 graduation session.
After obtaining the Second-level short specialisation degree’s diploma, nurses become
specialized professionals
capable of applying the advanced competencies acquired in specific contexts, such multipurpose or specialist intensive and sub-intensive care units, in hubs, E.R., operating centres and operating rooms.
Furthermore, the Second-level short specialisation degree is a mandatory requirement to access specialist professional functions, as regulated by Law no. 43/2006, implemented by CCNL 2019-2022 and applied by several healthcare companies and units, through internal regulations or resolutions.
Course program
Classroom lessons of the
First-level short specialisation degree
in Nursing Care in Intensive and Emergency Areas
are divided into three macro-areas, each one comprising several teaching modules. Each module is formulated according to functions and/or body systems typical of the
ABCDE evaluation
, by professors belonging to different professional profiles, such as:
doctors, expert and specialized nurses, cardiovascular perfusion technician, neurophysiopathology technician, physical therapist and dietician
.
CARDIAC-RESPIRATORY AREA
Non-hospital and E.R. assistance
Monitoring and support of respiratory functions
Monitoring and support of hemodynamic functions
SPECIALIST AREA
Monitoring and support of neurological functions and pain
Monitoring and support of metabolic functions
Monitoring and support of renal functions
Monitoring and support of critically pediatric patient
Wound care and thermal regulation
Medical risk management
LAW AND RESEARCH
Research and teamwork
Law and bioethics
Included in the registration fee, the First-level short specialisation degree offers
Basic Life Support (BLSD),
Advanced Cardiovascular Life Support (ACLS)
courses
and the course
PreHospital Trauma Life Support
(PHTLS)
with certified instructors. It also guarantees the
Safety course for specific risk (High Risk) according to Legislative Decree 81/08
and the possibility of taking the
Pediatric Advanced Life Support (PALS)
course at a discounted rate.
Teaching methods
In-class teaching
: 400 hours comprising in-person lessons, workshops and practice. Class
days are intensive
, and comprise morning and afternoon. Presence in the classroom is expected.
Lessons of the First-level short specialisation degree in Nursing Care in Intensive and Emergency Areas will be held in two time periods: from November 2024 to May 2025 and from November 2025 to May 2026 at the
Istar Lecture Hall (Palazzina Servizi Tecnici at the University Hospital of Padua, 2
nd
floor – Via Vincenzo Gallucci no. 13, Padua)
and at the Skill Lab of the School of Medicine (via Giovanni Battista Belzoni n.160, Padua).
Workshops
and
practice
on: eco-fast, eco-guided peripheral vascular access, intraosseous access, advanced airway management, basic management of the mechanical ventilator, suture course, Basic Life Support (BLSD) course and Advance Life Support (ALS) practice with certified American Heart Association (AHA) instructors.
Traineeship:
it includes 2 stages, each one 150 hour long, between: emergency and trauma, invasive ventilation, non-invasive ventilation, vascular access, advanced hemodynamic, renal replacement therapy, brain-damaged patients, care-related infections. Based on the path chosen, matching critical area operating units of the University Hospital of Padua and affiliated entities (Aulss6) will be assigned.
The traineeship takes place in two periods
from June to September 2025 and from June to September 2026
, with the option of scheduling it in a facilitated manner for working students.
A mandatory
70% attendance is required for all learning activities
and
100% for the internship
.
Lesson calendar:
– 6,9,10,11 December 2024 from 9.00 to 18.00
– 7,8,9,10 January 2025 from 9.00 to 18.00
– 4,5,6,7 February 2025 from 9.00 to 18.00
– 4,5,6,7 March 2025 from 9.00 to 18.00
– 1,2,3,4 April 2025 from 9.00 to 18.00
– 6,7,8,9 May 2025 from 9.00 to 18.00
The calendar may be subject to change, educational workshops and certified courses are not included.
Selection test
The selection test will be
oral
on the basic topics of nursing care in critical care.
The selection test will be held in the
Castellino Hall
located on the ground floor of the Polyclinic of the Padua University Hospital on the following days and times:
– 14 October 2024, from 10.00 to 14.30
– 15 October 2024: from 9.00 to 12.00
At the end of pre-registration, the First-level short specialisation degree
‘s Secretariat will provide the candidates with the selection test calendar via email.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 e 26 will be published on the Italian page of this First-level short specialisation degree according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2026
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
20
Maximum available spots:
30
First instalment:
€
									1.625,00
Second instalment:
€
									1.000,00
Selection process notice
Eventuali titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
What are the access requirements?
The First-level short specialisation degree has a
limited number of participants
. The selection method is score-based, by assessing the
titles
and the
years of working experience
, through the resume submitted in the pre-registration phase. The score obtained is added to the oral exam, revolving around intensive care and non-hospital/E.R. emergency topics.
Will the CFU be recognized?
The course recognizes the BLSD, ACLS, PHTLS course and the specific Safety – High Risk course (L.n. 81/08) for those students that, after being admitted, will provide the relevant documents, after suitable evaluation by the First-level short specialisation degree’s Administrative Office.
Will there be any educational leave?
Working students may request annual educational leaves at their own companies, to carry out educational or traineeship activities. The First-level short specialisation degree’s Administrative Office will provide help and the additional documentation required by companies.
Will there be any intermediate tests?
The course entails the following intermediate tests: an individual paper on bioethics and professional responsibility; a teamwork on medial risk topics; a multidisciplinary multiple choice test on the relevant subjects before accessing the medical traineeship.
How is the final exam structured?
At the end of the academic year, students will be required to draft and present a short project work, consisting in the revision of literature on intensive or emergency care topics, or in an improvement project to be implemented in their own Operating Unit or traineeship location.
Classes start:
18/11/2024
Duration:
Two-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.595,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Paolo Navalesi
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Nicoletta Mansueto
Phone:
0498218851
Email:
master.assistinfermieristicaintensiva@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top