Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/avig-vascular-access-implant-and-management/

Skip to content
First level university master
AVIG
Vascular Access, Implant and Management
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
AVIG - Vascular Access, Implant and Management
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
AVIG - Vascular Access, Implant and Management
The Master joins the second extraordinary pre-enrolment term from the 4th to the 25th November 2024, 12.30 pm
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree in Vascular Access, Implant and Management
prepares professionals capable of covering a specialized, multiprofessional and multiequipe healthcare position, by ensuring suitable assessment, adequate specialist performance, correct resource allocation, cost reduction, and solid professional liability for the services provided.
The path integrates the general skills learned in basic and post-basic education, with the goal of forming a
vascular access specialist
, capable of relating to the patient and the professional figures present in the different healthcare settings, of collaborating with medical professionals on the operative decisions, and of planning surgeries so as to prevent duplicates, redundancies, waiting times, with the goal of ensuring high and efficient performance and effective results.
Educational content
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree in Vascular Accesses, Implant and Management
is provided in
blended
mode, that is, the educational portion can be done remotely, while the lab and traineeship preparation part is available
in-person
only. The
remote
section can be followed also by full-time workers, since it is provided on-demand through the Moodle multimedia platform of the University of Padua. It was designed for students and professionals who wish to combine other jobs and professionals with the need to qualify or further specialize.
Video lessons
include
homework
available on-demand to certify the competences acquired.
The
Project Work
for the final exam will be done also on the on-line platform, in agreement with the tutor. While the dissertation will be done in-person, with the option of connecting remotely, just as the first day of the Master.
There will be a frequent and user-friendly interaction between students and professors through the
Moodle
Forum.
Course target and career opportunities
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Vascular Access, Implant and Management
is addressed to doctors and nurses qualified to practice. Knowledge of the Italian language is required; however, no specific education or experience in vascular access device implant and management, or experience in a specific medical setting, is required.
The course is mainly addressed to professionals who wish to expand and certify their education, and undertake specialist roles of
vascular access implant and management
.
The reference work fields are hospital healthcare and local sanitary services, specifically, the intra-hospital and extra-hospital consultancy service, as well as semi-residential and residential home care services.
Lastly, the Master is also aimed at
forming healthcare personnel
who will carry out medical research activities, within the vascular access implant and management field.
Course program
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree in Vascular Accesses, Implant and Management
provides in-depth training on the following modules:
Role management and medical skills development
Case management, care paths, continuous care
Research and evidence based practice
The professional will also be well-prepared in relational aspects and will thus be able to interact positively with other corporate and territorial professional figures, thanks to the acquisition of transversal skills in communication, negotiation, contextual analysis, problem solving, and teamwork.
Una partnership di valore per garantire un’efficiente e completa opportunità di training in ambiente simulato
I tirocini si svolgeranno dopo un periodo obbligatorio di training in ambiente simulato che sarà organizzato dall’ateneo in collaborazione con le aziende Beckton Dickinson e Solventum, docenti, infermieri e medici di AULSS 6 Euganea, Istituto Oncologico Veneto IRCCS e Azienda Ospedale Università Padova, e i PICC TEAM operanti nelle provincie di Padova, Treviso e Vicenza, con la possibilità di attivazione, on demand, di ulteriori sedi di training nel territorio nazionale tramite idonee collaborazioni con le succitate aziende per gli studenti provenienti da altre zone del paese (da verificare in itinere).
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
10
Maximum available spots:
200
First instalment:
€
									2.522,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.000,00
Selection process notice
Website
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
Is there a mandatory attendance percentage?
It is mandatory to attend 70% of the Master, including also the traineeship/stage.
How is the selection carried out? Is there an admission test?
No, there is no admission test. The assessment will be made based only on the titles.
Will there be any form of facilitation (PTA, PA, Scholarships...)?
No enrollment fee is required for
students with disabilities
who have a disability rating between 66% and 100% or who are certified under Law No. 104. They will only need to pay the pre-enrollment fee, insurance, and stamp duty;
PA 110 e lode
: all Public Administration employees who enroll in the master’s course enjoy a discount of 330 euros on the contribution of the second instalment, even in the event of payment of the registration fee by another person, for example by the belonging body. For further information on the criteria and methods of disbursement of any further ministerial contributions, we recommend consulting the pages dedicated to the protocol on the institutional website of the Department of Public Function:
https://www.funzionepubblica.gov.it/formazione/pa-110-e-lode
https://presidenza.governo.it/associazioneTrasparente/Sovvenzioni/CriteriModalita/DFP/PA110eLode/DcrCD_20230808_criteriPA110.pdf
There is the possibility of supernumerary enrolment for
University staff
in order to allow continuous and permanent updating. The enrolment fee for the technical and administrative staff of the University is parameterised to the minimum enrolment fee set out in art. 24, paragraph 1 of these Regulations, and is equal to 20% of the quota. In the event that the technical and administrative staff of the University is in possession of the requirements for admission to the Course, once the course is completed, he/she will be able to obtain the relevant Diploma or Certificate; If they do not meet the admission requirements, they may be admitted as an auditor and obtain a certificate of participation
How will remote learning be structured?
In the in-person section, the Master entails a first
“hands-on” training period
in the lab, followed by a
traineeship/stage
in one of the partner facilities for the medical training activity. Both sections will be organized at the end of the remote theoretical education period. Single students can suggest other facilities for the medical stage/traineeship, which will be required to stipulate a special agreement.
The stage/traineeship will be suggested to the attendees based on the availability specified by partner facilities, in order to allow everyone to reach the traineeship objectives. The periods will be assigned based on the ‘first come, first served’ principles.
Classes start:
02/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
Distance learning
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.522,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Riccardo Carandina
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Unità di Biostatistica, epidemiologia e sanità pubblica
Phone:
3312601668
Email:
segreteria.master@ubep.unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top