Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/bdg-models-and-methodologies-of-intervention-for-gifted-children-and-children-with-special-needs-or-learning-disorders/

Skip to content
Second level university master
BDG
Models and methodologies of intervention for Gifted Children and children with special needs or learning disorders
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
BDG - Models and methodologies of intervention for Gifted Children and children with special needs or learning disorders
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
BDG - Models and methodologies of intervention for Gifted Children and children with special needs or learning disorders
The Second-level Short Specialisation Degree in Models and methodologies of intervention for gifted children and children with special needs or learning disorders
aims to train highly qualified professional figures working in the field of learning as it pertains to the
educational success
of students with specific learning difficulties or with different forms of giftedness. This is to focus on the points indicated in law 170/10, in the ministerial circulars on special needs, and in the guidelines on gifted children, as well as on the most recent scientific research with an approach based on improving the
psychological/pedagogical/instructional
dimensions necessary for the educational success of students with specific learning needs.
Academic content
The Second-level Short Specialisation Degree in Models and Methodologies of Intervention for Gifted Children and Children with Special Needs or Learning Disorders
provides training on topics like school difficulties and abilities, learning in the mathematical context, neurodevelopmental disorders, special education, gifted students, disabilities, and developmental psychology.
Target group and job opportunities
The Second-level Short Specialisation Degree in Models and Methodologies of Intervention for Gifted Children and Children with Special Needs or Learning Disorders
is aimed specifically at
teachers
from schools at all levels.  At the end of the course, they will be able to find employment in schools as inclusion professionals or  learning-disability experts.
It is also aimed at
psychologists
who, at the end of the course, will be able to implement development and rehabilitation strategies for children with specific learning difficulties.
At the end of the course
, educators
and
tutors
will be able to come up with specialised after-school activities for children with specific difficulties.
Course program
The Second-level Short Specialisation Degree in Models and Methodologies of Intervention for Gifted Children and Children with Special Needs or Learning Disorders
will provide training in:
School difficulties:
School difficulties and specific learning disorders.
School skills:
Explanatory models of the development of school skills.
Mathematical learning:
mathematical learning in different school levels; helping students with mathematics.
Neurodevelopmental disorders:
attention disorders; behaviour disorders; non-verbal learning disorder.
Special education:
teaching strategies for students with special educational needs.
Gifted students and school:
understanding gifted students; educational accommodations for gifted students.
Disabilities and school:
intellectual disabilities; borderline intellectual functioning; school regulations on disabilities.
Developmental psychology
: (36 lecture hours, 10 hours of personal accounts, 24 hours online): learning and emotions, school motivation, relationships in the class group.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Mind and psycho-physical well-being
End of classes:
30/09/2024
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
15
Maximum available spots:
45
First instalment:
€
									1.618,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.006,50
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
How will the course be structured?
The Master’s course will take place in person and will include approximately 250 hours of lectures on
Fridays
(usually in the afternoon) and
Saturdays
(all day) twice a month. There will also be about 100 hours of online learning (exercises to be carried out individually in the Moodle platform).
Will there be an internship?
Yes, the Master’s is to include an internship lasting 150 hours.
Will there be a final thesis discussion?
Project work is required to complete the Master’s,  and it will be discussed at the end of the course. This project consists of a written paper where the student will discuss a practical experience of working with children with difficulties in school.
Classes start:
25/11/2023
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
Distance learning
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.625,00
Pre-enrolment deadline:
06/10/2023
Management
Prof. Daniela Lucangeli
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Alessandra Torresan
Phone:
0498276553
Email:
masterdsa.dpss@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top