Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/beb-biolaw-and-bioethics/

Skip to content
Second level university master
BEB
Biolaw and Bioethics
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
BEB - Biolaw and Bioethics
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
BEB - Biolaw and Bioethics
Not activated for AY 2024/2025.
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Biolaw and Bioethics (BeB)
offers an important and up-to-date legal and bioethic formation to anyone working in the healthcare sector, to those who are part (or wish to be part) of a bioethics committee, clinical trial ethical committee, ethical committee of unregulated research bodies and institutions, pharmaceutical companies, associations active in the technology sector with an impact of individual and collective health, and editors working in the field of scientific-technological studies and researches to assess the ethical-legal sustainability of their editorial investment.
Purpose of this course is training
legal experts for ethical and bioethics committee in public and private institutions and structures
, engaged in research and healthcare activities.
Educational content
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Biolaw and Bioethics (BeB)
encompasses all those fields that focus on bioethical topics with a major social impact, and which require multidisciplinary competences, such as clinical experimentation and practice, animal and environmental bioethics, personal healthcare data protection, risk management and communication. It focuses also on the so-called
biolaw
, an area of legal disciplines that tackles issues concerning the protection of human life and the legal implications resulting from life sciences and the technological evolution behind their development.
Students will acquire:
Legal-specialised and interdisciplinary knowledge
that can be applied to biolaw, ethical, and bioethical consultancy contexts;
Knowledge of the current bioethics topics
, by developing the ability to place themselves in those contexts in a conscious and critical way;
Ability to identify a legal issue
and represent its specific standpoint on biolegal, ethical and bioethical matters
Ability to convey biolegal topics
in all their problematic aspects, to coordinate it with the other relevant issues, such as managing collective thought, and to help mediate controversial matters.
Target and career opportunities
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Biolaw and Bioethics (BeB)
is addressed to:
All healthcare, pharmaceutical, research and scientific publishing operators, interested in dwelling on bioethical topics with a legal focus;
Legal experts interested in specializing in biolaw and bioethics.
Compared to standard legal degrees, this First-level Short Specialisation Degree offers a multidisciplinary and specialized formation, which is absent from common college curricula.
Career opportunities may include:
bioethics committee;
ethics committee from private and public R&D structures and institutions;
medical or pharmaceutical research companies and institutions;
ethics committee of editors interested in assessing the ethical sustainability of scientific and educational publications;
legal attorneys specialized in biolaw;
law or social studies professors, informed on the impact science and technology have on individual and social life.
Programme
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Biolaw and Bioethics (BeB)
delves on the following specific topics:
Theory of biolaw sources
Reconstruction of the main acts and international conventions, with a European and national focus. Among the topics covered, regulatory enunciations between formant, lato sensu, legal and case law, with evidence on the importance of ethical and deontological interpretations and practices.
Human biolaw and bioethics
History and philosophical-conceptual module behind Bioethics and the concept of Biolaw. This module focuses on the topics of the current national and international debate, and on the different ethical positions at stake, assessing them from a legal-philosophical and non-ideological context.
Animal and environmental biolaw and bioethics
Legal, juridical and ethical patterns concerning animal health and welfare and environmental protection, by analysing the regulatory ascent of paradigms that corroborate the planetary interconnection between human health and well-being, animals, plants and environment, from a scientific standpoint.
Ethical and legal aspects of personal data protection in biotechnological research applied to humans
Data protection legal notions, with a focus on scientific and technological research applied to humans, protection of biometric and genetic data, and relation with the conceptual evolution and legal actualization of the fundamental principle of human dignity.
Clinical practice bioethics and biolaw
The ethical issues that may affect single cases are recognized and analysed, with the aim of improving the quality of clinical practice decision-making and care processes. A customized approach, to enhance the patient’s independence and minimize criticalities.
Ethical, legal and methodological aspects of clinical trials
This module wishes to improve the quality of decision-making processes in the clinical trial field, providing the right competences to:
Recognize and analyse the ethical and legal issues that may arise from the analysis of clinical research protocols;
Identify the types, regulations, peculiarity and procedures;
Understand the role of Ethical Committees in approving research protocols and the methods adopted by the same.
Risk management in the healthcare sector
This module provides expert skills to identify potentially critical events and related risk factors, by analysing management and planning methods, promoting a culture of patient safety, and developing organizational safety.
Communication and decisions in bioethics and biolaw
An effective, well-thought out communication promotes a constructive dialogue, an ethical analysis, and a collaborative decision-making process. Through communication strategies, practice and simulations, students will reach a respectful and informed ethical decision, by optimizing the debate around critical dilemmas.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this First-level Short Specialisation Degree according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Finance, Law and International relations
End of classes:
11/07/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
15
Maximum available spots:
30
Single instalment:
€
									3.522,50
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
What titles are required to enrol in the Master?
DEGREES BEFORE MINISTERIAL DECREE 509
Law;
Medicine and Surgery;
Veterinary Medicine;
Pharmacy;
Business and Economics
CLASSES FROM FIVE-YEAR DEGREES PURSUANT TO MINISTERIAL DECREE 509 22/S
Classes belonging to five-year degrees in Law
CLASSES FROM MASTER’S DEGREES PURSUANT TO MINISTERIAL DECREE 270
LMG/ 01 – Classes belonging to Master’s degrees in Law
LM-41-Medicine and Surgery
LM-42-Veterinary Medicine
LM-6-Biology
LM-9-Medical, Veterinary and Pharmaceutical Biotechnologies
LM-13-Pharmacy and Industrial Pharmacy
LM-21-Biomedical Engineering
LM-56-Science of Economics
How and when will the lessons be held?
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
will be held in blended mode, online and in classroom.
Lessons will be held between 1 December 2024 and 31 July 2025. Internships will be held on May/June 2025.
Lessons will be held preferably on Fridays and Saturdays. Any other schedule will be decided based on the students’ availability.
The course is completed by a 60-hour internship (10 CFU).
Is there a maximum number of students enrolled?
Yes, the maximum number is 30 students. There will be a few supernumerary spots for
applicants with disabilities (equal to or higher than 60%) – 2.
The First-level Short Specialisation Degree adheres to the Protocol PA 110 e lode which provides benefits for PA employees.
Classes start:
13/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
Distance learning
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.522,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Claudio Sarra
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
UniSMART Fondazione Università di Padova
Phone:
3351727173
Email:
formazione@unismart.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top