Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/car-cardiology-for-anaesthesiologist-resuscitators/

Skip to content
Post graduate programme
CAR
Cardiology for anaesthesiologist-resuscitators
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
CAR - Cardiology for anaesthesiologist-resuscitators
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
CAR - Cardiology for anaesthesiologist-resuscitators
The
Postgraduate Course in Cardiology for Anaesthesiologist-Resuscitators
prepares professionals for an in-depth analysis and hands-on management of the most relevant cardiological aspects.
The course covers topics such as
electrocardiography and basic echocardiography and thorax ultrasound elements.
It also covers aspects such as: pre-operative evaluation of cardiopathic patients who have to undergo non-cardiac surgery, perioperative management of anti-aggregating and anti-coagulating treatments, perioperative management of pacemakers and other devices. Further fields of study are the
management of cardiological urgencies/emergencies,
to the extent applicable to a resuscitator, diagnosis and management of arrhythmias, and also hemodynamic aspects in the Intensive Care Unit.
The Postgraduate Course in Cardiology for Anaesthesiologist-Resuscitators is held in partnership with the Padua Hospital and the ULSS 3 Serenissima Health Unit.
Educational content
The course units of the Postgraduate Course in Cardiology for Anaesthesiologist-Resuscitators cover the following aspects:
ECG interpretation;
Basic echocardiography and thorax ultrasound execution in urgency/emergency situations and as monitoring tool;
Perioperative management of cardiopathic patients in non-cardiac surgery;
Management of the main
cardiac emergencies
that may require the intervention of a resuscitator;
Cardiac arrhythmia diagnosis and management;
Hemodynamic in the ICU.
The course will include stages, project works and a final exam with presentation of a research paper.
Course target and career opportunities
The Postgraduate Course in Cardiology for Anaesthesiologist-Resuscitators is intended for anaesthesiologist-resuscitators and increases their independence and professional level in three different areas: diagnostic instruments (
ECG and echocardiography
),
Cardiology during Anaesthesia
,
Cardiology during Urgent/Emergency Situations and in the ICU
.
Course program
The Postgraduate Course in Cardiology for Anaesthesiologist-Resuscitators provides specific training on:
ELECTROCARDIOGRAPHY
Normal and pathological ECG
ECG: main pathologies
ECG: decision-making models for anaesthesiologist-resuscitators
ECHOCARDIOGRAPHY
Ultrasound physics and ultrasound image formation
Transthoracic echocardiography
Transoesophageal echocardiography
Cardiac chamber assessment
Valves assessment
Pericardium assessment
“Dynamic ecosystem” approach to hemodynamic in the critical area
Hypovolemia and fluid responsiveness
Echocardiography in specific clinical settings
PERIOPERATORY MANAGEMENT
Perioperative evaluation of cardiopathic patients who have to undergo non-cardiac surgery
Cardiopathies and anaesthesia
Perioperative management of anti-aggregating and anti-coagulating treatments
Perioperative management of pacemakers and other devices
CARDIAC URGENCIES/EMERGENCIES
Main cardiac urgencies/emergencies
Arrhythmia diagnosis and management
HEMODYNAMICS IN THE ICU
Hemodynamic monitoring in the ICU
General merit ranking
The general merit ranking for the a.y. 2024/25 will be published here according to the timing set by the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
30/09/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
20
Single instalment:
€
									1.522,50
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
Will there be a final exam?
Yes, every student will choose a topic they want to elaborate on, and will draft a final Master’s research paper individually, with the help of an advisor professor identified by the University Department, which will be presented in September 2025 before a Committee.
Can a Public Institution enrol one of its employee in this Course?
Yes, a Public Institution can enrol one of its employees. In this case, please contact the Course’s Administrative Office to know more about the procedure to follow and finalize the enrolment.
How will the lessons be structured?
The course units include a theoretical section (with video-lessons that can be taken on the dedicated Moodle space, asynchronously), and a hands-on section, held once a month, on Friday afternoon and Saturday morning and afternoon, at the UOC of Anaesthesia and Resuscitation and at the UOC of Cardiology of the ULSS 3 Venice, Campo SS Giovanni e Paolo, Castello 6777, Venice.
Classes start:
14/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua, Venice
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
17
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							1.522,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Donato Mele
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Dott. Marco Meggiolaro - Direttore UOC Anestesia e Rianimazione Ospedale Ss Giovanni e Paolo (Venezia)
Phone:
0415295912
Email:
marco.meggiolaro@aulss3.veneto.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top