Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/cct-cardiac-computed-tomography/

Skip to content
Post graduate programme
CCT
Cardiac Computed Tomography
Advanced Techniques and Applications
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
CCT - Cardiac Computed Tomography
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
CCT - Cardiac Computed Tomography
The
Post-Graduate Course in Cardiac Computed Tomography: Advanced Techniques and Applications
, strengthens the theoretical/practical skills of cardiac CT exams, integrated in multimodality imaging, providing specific training to optimize resources and potential of this diagnostic method in ischemic heart disease, structural heart disease, congenital heart diseases in children and adults, with a focus on the most recent innovations in this field.
The course includes lessons and practice on patient preparation, exam management, protocol optimization, post-processing with image rework and use of a different software, for basic and advanced evaluations, such as plaque characterization, periconorary and myocardium fat assessment, up to the report being drafted and its integration in the patient’s diagnostic/treatment plan, concerning the main pathologies for which a cardiac CT is indicated.
Learning content
The
Post-Graduate Course in Cardiac Computed Tomography: Advanced Techniques and Applications
trains doctors highly specialized in cardiac imaging with CT, by implementing their specific knowledge in the use of techniques, in managing complications, and in integrating different specific cardiac-radiological competences, into the therapeutic diagnostic path concerning the main cardiac pathologies, in synergy with other diagnostic techniques.
The close integration between clinical practice and imaging, which is the foundation on which this course is based, highlights how a multidisciplinary evaluation and the collaboration between specialists can help achieve high-quality and increasingly accurate standards of diagnosis, treatment and therapeutic indication, by aiming at a customized precision medicine model.
Recipients and career opportunities
The
Post-Graduate Course in Cardiac Computed Tomography: Advanced Techniques and Applications
is addressed to Medical Surgeons, specialized in Radiodiagnostics/Radiology, Cardiology, Nuclear Medicine.
Possible career opportunities include public or private healthcare facilities, in the cardiac imaging sectors.
Program
The
Post-Graduate Course in Cardiac Computed Tomography: Advanced Techniques and Applications
includes a program articulated in 3 macro-areas:
Cardiac CT: from anatomy to image acquisition;
Cardiac CT: indications, study protocols and pathology-based post-processing;
Diagnostic paths: CT in multi-modality cardiac imaging.
These areas are developed in the following modules:
Module 1 – CARDIOVASCULAR ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, INDICATIONS AND GUIDELINES
Introduction to cardiovascular anatomy and physiology; indications and clinical potential of cardiac CT in the diagnostic path of patients suffering from heart disease.
Module 2 – PATIENT PREPARATION, PROTOCOLS AND TECHNICAL ASPECTS
Patient management in terms of technical and pharmacological preparation, contrast media
and cardio-synchronized acquisition methods, exam contraindications, principles of radioexposure.
Module 3 – ISCHEMIC CARDIOPATHY
Indications, targeted protocols and post-processing: calcium score, plaque analysis, perfusion and stress, advanced analyses. Follow up on revascularized and heart transplant patients.
Module 4 – CORONARY ANOMALIES AND CONGENITAL CARDIOPATHIES
Indications, targeted protocols and post-processing in congenital cardiopathies in paediatric and adult age, and in coronary anomalies; 3D printing and virtual reality;
Module 5 – STRUCTURAL CARDIAC DISEASES
Indications, targeted protocols and post-processing in aortic, mitralic, tricuspid, and pulmonary valve pathologies; cardiomyopathies.
Integration of CT in pre- and post-procedure structural interventional cardiology.
Module 6 – ARRHYTHMIAS AND SPORTS
Indications, targeted protocols and post-processing in arrhythmias, and in master and non-competitive athletes. CT applications in electrophysiology.
Module 7 – EMERGENCIES-URGENCY
Protocols, indications and management in emergency-urgency patients.
Module 8 – MULTI-MODALITY CARDIAC IMAGING
Analysis of the role of CT in multimodality cardiac imaging, and comparison with other ultrasound, invasive and cardiac magnetic resonance methods. Optimization of integrated multidisciplinary study protocols for the main cardiac pathologies.
Module 9 – CARDIAC CT IN CLINICAL PRACTICE
Clinical cases: evaluation of the indications, exam acquisition, patient management and dataset processing,
post-processing, image analysis and report drafting.
Faculty
The Faculty is comprised as follows:
Prof. Raffaella Motta
Dr Valeria Pergola
Prof. Martina Perazzolo Marra
Dr Annagrazia Cecere
Dr Giorgio De Conti
Dr Simone Corradin
Dr Stefano Da Pozzo
Prof. Sabino Iliceto
Teaching system
Attendance to the Course is mandatory (min. 80% of the total CFU). Students must attend to the lessons, seminars and hands-on activities carried out in person, in order to familiarize with the potential of cardiac CT, acquisition techniques, patient preparation, pathology-based diagnostic protocols, post-processing, diagnostic report drafting, and exam clinical impact assessment aspects.
The lessons and case interpretation sessions will be held in class, at the Hospital University of Padua, and partially as webinars, on a dedicated platform. The observational clinic part will be carried out at the hospital Radiology unit, where participants will assist in the exam acquisition and post-processing, by actively taking part in post-acquisition analysis on dedicated software.
There will be a final exam for all modules, with a final exam, consisting of a post-processing analysis and in drafting of an exam report for a clinical case, in order to evaluate the students’ capacity to optimize the potential of diagnostic method.
Information
Thematic area:
Salute, ambiente e territorio
End of classes:
30/09/2025
Mandatory attendance:
80%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
10
Single instalment:
€
									1.222,50
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
What are the selection criteria to access the Course?
The titles submitted by applicants will be evaluated during the selection process.
In particular, the following scores will be attributed:
Resume: up to 70 points
Dissertation: up to 10 points
Publications: up to 10 points
Other titles deemed useful by the applicant: up to 10 points
Will there be an internship?
The Course includes an observational clinic part, which will be carried out at the Hospital University of Padua (Director: Dr Giorgio De Conti), where participants will assist in the exam acquisition and post-processing, by actively taking part in post-acquisition analysis on dedicated software, supervised by tutors.
This hands-on activities, which will be carried out in the CT Rooms, is crucial to train the students, and an integral part of the Course; for this reason, the Course is limited to 10 participants.
Will there be any forms of facilitations?
An enrolment contribution equal to €240.00 is reserved to DAC students. Unfortunately, no scholarships will be provided.
What are the minimum attendance requirements?
Attendance of the Post-Graduate Couse is mandatory; students must attend at least 80% of the overall theoretical-practical activities.
Classes start:
04/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padova
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
8
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							1.222,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof.ssa Raffaella Motta
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Barbara Hildenbrand
Phone:
049 8218642
Email:
barbara.hildenbrand@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top