Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/chd-paediatric-cardiology-and-congenital-heart-diseases/

Skip to content
Second level university master
CHD
Paediatric Cardiology and Congenital Heart Diseases
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
CHD - Paediatric Cardiology and Congenital Heart Diseases
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
CHD - Paediatric Cardiology and Congenital Heart Diseases
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree in Paediatric Cardiology and Congenital Heart Diseases
prepares medicine and surgery graduates with high expertise to the diagnosis and management of patients with congenital and complex heart diseases, with particular focus on clinical-instrumental management issues and surgical-interventional implications.
The Course deepens the theoretical and practical knowledge required to interpret
congenital heart diseases and the hemodynamic consequences
resulting from such lesions from gestational age to adulthood. It also trains attendees on how to perform an echocardiographic exam in complex patients autonomously, and how to integrate the data resulting from advanced imaging techniques (CMR and CCT), by learning their indications, advantages, limits and contraindications.
Based on this multimodality approach, the Master ensures a high-level preparation to perform differential diagnosis.
Educational content
The course units of the
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree in Paediatric Cardiology and Congenital Heart Diseases
help students acquire in-depth knowledge on clinical, echocardiographic and
multi-modality imaging
paths for congenital heart diseases from the gestational age to adulthood. It also provides advanced knowledge on echocardiography (3D and speckle tracking) and other imaging techniques (MRI, CT scans, catheterization).
Course target and career opportunities
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree in Paediatric Cardiology and Congenital Heart Diseases
is addressed to paediatric, cardiology, gynaecology and obstetrics, radiology specialists, and, in general, to medicine and surgery graduates.
Through the knowledge acquired in the Master’s Course, attendees will acquire suitable competencies to be placed in
Level 3 hubs
or
spoke centres
, and to become expert interlocutors in this specific sub-speciality within the hub. Also, attendees can acquire the competencies required to work in an
outpatient clinic
where cardiology screening for paediatric and congenital heart disease patients is carried out.
Course program
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Paediatric Cardiology and Congenital Heart Diseases
provides training on:
CARDIOLOGY
Congenital heart diseases, morphological aspects, clinical and echocardiographic diagnosis, advanced
echocardiography
(3D, strain, fluid-dynamic)
Paediatric and
congenital heart disease
hemodynamic (1 and 2)
Clinical and therapeutic management of congenital heart diseases in paediatric patients
Cardiac surgery of congenital heart diseases
Ventricular assist and
heart transplant i
n congenital heart diseases
New frontiers of
interventional hemodynamic
in structural heart diseases
Congenital heart diseases in paediatric patients – psychological aspects and family support
Medical evaluation of children with congenital heart disease
PAEDIATRICS
Foetal cardiology
Congenital heart diseases in paediatric patients – psychological aspects and family support
Medical evaluation of children with congenital heart disease
Neurological evaluation of
children with congenital heart disease
Infectious picture in children with congenital heart diseases
Paediatric and congenital heart disease arrhythmia
Advanced imaging
(
cardiotac
)
DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING
Cardiac MRI
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
12
First instalment:
€
									2.522,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.500,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
How long is the Master's duration and how is it organized?
The Master’s Course requires a commitment of three days every month for 10 months, with customizable
attendance
based on the attendee’s needs. Moreover, once a week, for the entire course duration, there will be a specific lesson on congenital heart diseases, and the option of taking part in
multidisciplinary collegial debates
on the main clinical cases of the week. Also, all attendees will have the chance to take part in all
educational activities
organized by the UOC of Paediatric Cardiology of Padua, free of charge or for a discounted fee.
How will the final exam take place?
There will be a
project work
on which the final Master’s dissertation will be based.
The Master’s Course will end with the discussion of the dissertation in class and a final evaluation.  To be able to
discuss the dissertation
, attendees are required to attend at least 7 out of the 10 weeks of lessons.
Classes start:
11/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							4.022,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Giovanni Di Salvo
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Gaetano Manfreda
Phone:
0498213402
Email:
gaetano.manfreda@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top