Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/clima-clinical-management-of-arterial-hypertension-during-emergencies-and-at-the-clinic/

Skip to content
First level university master
CLIMA
Clinical Management of Arterial Hypertension during Emergencies and at the Clinic
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
CLIMA - Clinical Management of Arterial Hypertension during Emergencies and at the Clinic
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
CLIMA - Clinical Management of Arterial Hypertension during Emergencies and at the Clinic
Not activated for the a.y. 2024/2025
The
Master in Clinical Management of Arterial Hypertension in Emergency and Clinical Settings
provides in-depth knowledge on arterial hypertension and cardiovascular prevention, and prepares professionals with high competence in
manage hypertension emergencies
caused by brain and/or cardiac and/or kidney and/or vascular damage.
The Master specific purposes include:
1) Being able to assess acute or chronic
organ damage
;
2) Being able to
interpret
blood pressure clinical
monitoring;
3) Managing hypertension patients according to appropriate pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment and guidelines.
Learning content
The
Master in Clinical Management of Arterial Hypertension in Emergency and Clinical Settings
prepares students on arterial hypertension and cardiovascular prevention. Moreover, professionals can improve their ability in managing hypertension patients under related emergencies. Indeed, arterial hypertension is the main factor of cardiovascular risk, and determines over 1,200 million deaths and early disability every year all over the world.
Recipients and career opportunities
The
Master in Clinical Management of Arterial Hypertension in Emergency and Clinical Settings
is addressed to nurses who wish to expand their knowledge on the topic, and obtain a high level of expertise in
advanced management
of patients with hypertension and cardiovascular pathologies.
The primary career path for nurses after completing the Master is professionals specialized in arterial hypertension matters, inside and outside hospital settings.
Such specializations are recognized in Arterial Hypertension and Cardiovascular Prevention Centres, ORs, Internal Medicine and/or Geriatric Units and/or Cardiology Clinics.
Course program
The
Master in Clinical Management of Arterial Hypertension in Emergency and Clinical Settings
provides in-depth knowledge on the following modules:
Module 1 – PRIMARY OR ESSENTIAL HYPERTENSION
Definition and prevalence
How to recognize primary hypertension
Module 2 – SECONDARY FORMS OF ARTERIAL HYPERTENSION
Pathogenetic and clinical aspects of secondary arterial hypertension
Imaging in secondary arterial hypertension forms
Adrenal venous catheterization in primary aldosteronism
Surgeries for arterial hypertension
Nursing knowledge
Arterial hypertension iatrogenic forms
Clinical management
Role of nurses
Module 3 – PATHOLOGIES AND CONDITIONS RELATED TO ARTERIAL HYPERTENSION
Dyslipidaemia in hypertension patients
Pre-eclampsia and eclampsia
Atrial fibrillation
Ischemic cardiopathy
Heart failure
Clinical cases analysis
Role of nurses
Module 4 – ARTERIAL HYPERTENSION AT THE OR AND IN URGENT CARE
The BARKH approach in hypertension emergencies
Syncope
Clinical cases analysis
Role of nurses
Module 5 – ORGAN DAMAGE IN ARTERIAL HYPERTENSION
Nephropathy, cardiopathy and vasculopathy in hypertension patients
Nurse management
TEACHING SYSTEM
The Master includes lectures, seminars and small group practice sessions. During hands-on activities, clinical cases are simulated and discussed (pair and group work activities). Support videos and invasive procedures are projected in the classroom to promote the discussion and review of the procedure. The course includes 1,500 hours of lectures, of which 1192 hours are individual study (for 60 CFU in total).
Mandatory attendance of at least 70% of the meetings in the Master schedule. Attendance shall be taken only if students are present for the entire duration of the lecture (or other activity). The lesson calendar will be posted on the webpage of the Medicine Department-DIMED. There will be a final exam at the end of the Master.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Second-level short specialisation degree according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
30/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
7
Maximum available spots:
50
First instalment:
€
									2.022,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.000,00
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
How will the course be structured?
The course includes in-person lectures, seminars, individual study, and a project work. There won’t be any distance learning modules.
How is the practical part organized?
The hands-on activity consists of:
Discussion of interactive cases, through the problem-solving method;
Simulation of clinical cases, supported by the projection of invasive procedures and surgeries to facilitate the discussion and review of diagnostic hypotheses.
Does the Master require mandatory attendance?
Yes, mandatory attendance is at least 70% of the meetings as scheduled, which will include lectures and practice (in small groups).
Classes start:
10/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.022,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Gian Paolo Rossi
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Dr. Domenico Mallardo, Dr. Vincenzo Carpentieri
Phone:
049 8214375
Email:
postlauream.dimed@unipd.it
Alternative contact
Contact Person:
Vice Director - Prof. Teresa Maria Seccia
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top