Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/cmgp-case-management-in-surgery-and-integrated-pathway-management-between-territory-and-hospital/

Skip to content
First level university master
CMGP
Case management in surgery and integrated pathway management between territory and hospital
models, methodology, research and applications of artificial intelligence
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
CMGP - Case management in surgery and integrated pathway management between territory and hospital
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
CMGP - Case management in surgery and integrated pathway management between territory and hospital
The
Master in Management of Surgical Cases and Territory/Hospital Integrated Pathways: Models, Methodologies, Research, and Application of AI,
trains professional with specific Case and Care Management competences in care, preventative, management, organizational, educational, and rehabilitative settings.
Purpose of the course is
ensuring continuity of care
between hospitals and territories, managing home and local structure care, by meeting the manifest and unexpressed patient needs, with the involvement of their family, whenever possible.
Educational content
The
Master in Management of Surgical Cases and Territory/Hospital Integrated Pathways: Models, Methodologies, Research, and Application of AI
trains professionals capable of taking over the patient and the family in a global manner, managing care and assistance procedures, and supporting the multi-professional and multi-disciplinary team and the family, both in hospitals and on the territory.
A peculiar setting, where the coordination and integration of several care professionals dealing with the patient and their family must be ensured.
Target and career opportunities
The
Master in Management of Surgical Cases and Territory/Hospital Integrated Pathways: Models, Methodologies, Research, and Application of AI,
forms professional figures, such as Case Manager and Care Managers. The selection is based on qualifications, according to the specifications in the Master announcement.
Given its blended mode, with on-demand lessons, the course was designed for students and professionals who wish to
conciliate other activities and professions
with the need to qualify or specialize themselves further.
After obtaining the title, professionals will be able to work in hospital and territorial units that deal with taking over and transition processes from one care setting to the next, in territorial operating hubs,  integrated and in continuity of care hubs.
Programme
The
Master in Management of Surgical Cases and Territory/Hospital Integrated Pathways: Models, Methodologies, Research, and Application of AI,
provides in-depth knowledge on the following topics:
CLINIC AND ORGANIZATION
Assessing patients with advanced techniques
Using scales to assess neuromotor, respiratory, cardiocirculatory, and cognitive functions and disabilities
Improving care quality through specific interventions
Communicating effectively with patients (health literacy)
Conducting motivational interviews to increase the willingness to change
Analysing the psycho-social dimension of care and rehabilitation needs
Assessing the emotional and social impact of chronic illnesses
Preventing or contrasting psycho-social distress of fragile patients and their families
Working in teams with an effective communication and counselling
Coaching, tutorship and change management
Managing the burden of the illness and of the family
Exploring instruments to assess the patient’s functional, psychological, physical and social well-being
Proving the effectiveness of a multi-dimensional assessment as an inter-professional diagnostic-therapeutic approach
Using multi-dimensional assessment to plan and implement the PAI
Calgary Family Assessment Model (CFAM)
Calgary Family Intervention Model (CFIM)
CASE MANAGEMENT AND CARE MANAGEMENT
Managing complex healthcare and social-care paths
Taking over a patient and customized treatment planning notions
Role of the multidisciplinary team, with problem-solving, territorial triage, group management and conflict resolution skills
Connected Care: use of inter-operability and care path governance technologies
Activating integrated paths with hospitals, the territory, at home, and with the family
Education and communication: promoting health, therapeutic education, life skills, self-care and care models
Innovative approaches: Care Management in complex patients, Chronic Care Model, Missed Nursing Care, Enhanced Recovery After Surgery
CLINICAL RESEARCH, EPIDEMIOLOGY AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
(AI)
Planning and managing protocols, procedures and guidelines for clinical research and epidemiology, by focusing on the use of AI
PDTRA (protocols, procedures and guidelines) development and management
Pharmacovigilance, therapeutic adherence, and LASA drugs
Research ethics and bioethics
Systematic review of literature and production of guidelines
Clinical research: planning, implementation, qualitative and quantitative
Epidemiology: evaluative and clinical
HTA (Health Technology Assessment)
IA: generative, machine learning, text mining, predictive models
Monitoring and surveillance of adverse events
Predictive and proactive systems
Promoting safety and appropriate care
Developing AI instruments for data analysis and event prevision
Improving the quality of healthcare and the patients’ outcome
RELIABLE EDUCATIONAL NETWORK
In order to ensure an efficient and complete internship opportunity, internships will be carried out by taking into account the preferences and the
best learning perspective
for students coming from North-Eastern Italy, at the hospital and district units of AULSS 6 Euganea, Istituto Oncologico Veneto IRCCS, and University Hospital of Padova, with the option of activating additional internship sites on demand on the national territory, through suitable partnerships, for students coming from other areas of the Country (to be evaluated during the course).
EXPERIENCE AND COMPETENCE IN EDUCATION, AI APPLICATIONS AND CLINICAL RESEARCH
The competences and experiences of the Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Public Health Unit in the organization of online Master courses, in
AI applications and in clinical research
– one of the crown jewels of the University of Padua – become excellent learning opportunities in this Master. The know-how is made available to students in a concrete manner, ensuring its application in project works and in the theory to practice transfer.
A few examples:
Monitoring Patients Reported Outcomes after Valve Replacement Using Wearable Devices: Insights on Feasibility and Capability Study DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18137171
Usability and Accuracy of a Smartwatch for the Assessment of Physical Activity in the Elderly Population DOI: 10.2196/20966
Knowledge assessment among subjects with chronic venous leg ulcer in outpatient setting: Translation and adaptation of a tool to identify subjects at risk of poor understanding DOI: 10.1111/wrr.13107
Use of Machine Learning Techniques for Case-Detection of VZV Using Routinely Collected Textual Ambulatory Records DOI: 10.2196/14330
Paediatric Injury Surveillance From Uncoded ED Admission Records in Italy: Machine Learning-Based Text-Mining Approach DOI: 10.2196/44467
FACULTY OVERVIEW
The Master faculty includes multiple stakeholders, with proven experience in the case management and care management field. Among them, students will find
case managers with a broad experience
in managing the processes and paths treated during the course, professionals involved in multiple regional hospital-territory integration development processes, coordinator of the Home Care Services, primary care doctors, Home Care and Palliative Care nurses, psychologists, patients, caregivers, managers and scholars.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
10
Maximum available spots:
200
First instalment:
€
									2.022,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.000,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
How will be the course organized and is there a mandatory attendance limit?
The Master will be held in blended mode: lessons can be followed on remote supports, while the internship section will be in-person only.
During the remote section, the course may be followed also by students working full-time jobs, since it will be provided on demand on the Moodle multimedia platform of the University of Padua. Video-lessons will include on-demand homework to test the competences acquired.
The Master opening day and final dissertation will be held through a live session on remote.  Interaction between students and professors will be facilitated through Moodle Forum.
Attendance is mandatory, and in order to obtain the title, 70% of the online lessons must be completed, along with the minimum hours of internship.
Will there be any forms of facilitation?
Students with disabilities between 66% and 100%, or certification pursuant to Law no. 104, will be exempted from paying the enrolment fee, and will be only required to pay the pre-enrolment fee, the insurance fee, and stamp duties.
PA and top grades: PA employees enrolling in our Master, will enjoy a €330 reduction on the second registration instalment. Moreover, the PA Department will award 50% of the enrolment fee paid by the student. For further information, refer to the Protocol pages, on the PA Department institutional website:
https://www.funzionepubblica.gov.it/formazione/pa-110-e-lode
https://presidenza.governo.it/AmministrazioneTrasparente/Sovvenzioni/
CriteriModalita/DFP/PA110eLode/DcrCD_20230808_criteriPA110.pdf
University staff with an open-ended employment contract may enrol in the course. The enrolment fee for University Technical-Administrative Staff is equal to the minimum enrolment fee, as established by Article 24, p. 1 of the University Regulation for Master Courses, Post-Graduate and Higher Education Courses of the University of Padua, and is equal to 20% of the fee. If the staff with open-ended labour contract possesses the requirements to enrol in the Course, once the Master is over, they will obtain the related Title or Diploma, or, if they do not possess the selection requirements, they may attend as Auditors and obtain an Attendance Certificate.
What is the Project Work?
The Project Work consists in a final original thesis, concerning one of the topics covered during the Master, and is completed on the online platform, as agreed with the tutor. Project Works include literature reviews, data processing, data collection and summary, clinical research projects, etc. During the Project (at the end of the lessons until the title awarding session), students will be flanked by a tutor, who will guide them throughout the process. At the end of the course, students will present their Project Work before an on-line committee on the Zoom platform.
How will the selection take place?
The Master admission selection is based on qualifications only. The selection method is described on the Master announcement.
Will there be any educational material to support individual study?
Apart from providing video lessons, the professors will provide, through the Moodle platform, texts, scientific publications, lecture notes, and other material, to explore the topics presented and to support individual study. Moreover, students have access to all the resources online and at the “Vincenzo Pinali” Medicine Library.
Classes start:
02/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
blended
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.022,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Schiavon Marco
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Unità di Biostatistica, Epidemiologia e Sanità Pubblica
Phone:
331 2601668
Email:
segreteria.master@ubep.unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top