Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/cps-clinical-product-specialist-and-clinical-research-under-eu-regulations-2017-745-and-2014-536/

Skip to content
First level university master
CPS
Clinical product specialist and clinical research under EU Regulations 2017/745 and 2014/536
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
CPS - Clinical product specialist and clinical research under EU Regulations 2017/745 and 2014/536
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
CPS - Clinical product specialist and clinical research under EU Regulations 2017/745 and 2014/536
The Master joins the second extraordinary pre-enrolment term from the 4th to the 25th November 2024, 12.30 pm.
The
Master in Clinical Product Specialist
is the first of its kind, with relevance in the academic and professional context. The course trains specialists to be more effective in creating value for companies and accessing important corporate roles,
to manage clinical and managerial challenges in commercial businesses successfully
, and thus improve the quality of patient care and optimize clinical results.
The Master’s objective is to consolidate and expand the students’ skills, and make a difference in the corporate sector, by offering the opportunity to excel as Clinical Specialist, Product Specialist, Clinical Operations, Scientific Affairs, and similar roles.
Educational content
The
Master in Clinical Product Specialist
provides in-depth training on:
in-depth knowledge of the National Healthcare System, governance and assets; public and private healthcare sector; value based healthcare strategies; telemedicine; the AI revolution; healthcare technology assessment (HTA); changes in the healthcare demand; medical device (MD) and pharma enterprises; pharmaceutical product(MD launch and management dynamics; medical device regulations; communication strategies, commercial strategy, tenders and drafting a technical report; how to present a product/training course to the public; preparing an accredited course, a webinar, congresses, events, hospital meetings, roundtables, work groups; sales management, the role of a clinical product specialist, the EBM; public speaking, leadership and effective communication; clinical specialist fundamentals, work trips and corporate benefits, goals/targets, working hours, work tools (CRM); company recruitment processes, how to get ready for an interview, soft skills, possible career paths in companies.
Target and career opportunities
The
Master in Clinical Product Specialist
is addressed to professionals who aspire to strategic roles in healthcare service, medical devices, pharmaceutical and biomedical companies, including nurses looking for to develop their career.
There are perspective in a broad range of roles, within companies active in the medical sector, such as:
Clinical & Product Specialist: clinical consultant for medical device manufacturing companies, who trains and provides technical support to customers and healthcare professionals.
Clinical Educator: specialized in the use and application of medical devices, this educator trains healthcare professionals and patients on how to use those devices in a safe and proper manner.
Product management within medical device manufacturing companies, to contribute to the development and launch of new products on the market.
Clinical Manager: supervises clinical activities and ensure quality medical device treatments; is also responsible for managing resources and implementing clinical policies and procedures.
Scientific Affairs Specialist: facilitates communication between medical device manufacturing companies, research institutes and scientific community, and is involved in the management of clinical data, conferences and scientific conventions.
Programme
The
Master in Clinical Product Specialist
provides specialist knowledge on the following macro-areas:
The National Healthcare System and Businesses: management models
Some of the topics covered will include: the healthcare system – regulations, asset and governance; market players and changes under way; the technological and digital revolution in the healthcare sector – support models.
Role and relation management
Some of the topics covered will include: sales and time management;
PNL;
interacting with customers and the
HCP;
roles of the
cps;
medical device manufacturing companies, pharmaceutical companies; service providers (industry structure and strategies, corporate communication strategies); public speaking, effective communication, leadership and business coaching.
Clinical research and evidence based practice
Some of the topics covered will include: GDPR; clinical research; epistemology; demand in the healthcare sector; from National Healthcare System models to integrated healthcare; regulatory affairs; medical direction and
MDR
quality; ethics applied to clinical research and tenders.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
10
Maximum available spots:
200
First instalment:
€
									2.522,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.000,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
How will the selection take place?
The Master admission selection is based on qualifications only. The selection method is described on the Master announcement.
Will there be any internships/apprenticeships/workshops or hands-on experience in companies during the course?
Yes, our partner companies have given their availability to welcome students for an internship period, organize seminars and workshops, and hands-on experiences; also, during the course, you will hear the experiences of colleagues already working as CPS or in similar roles, who will share this precious experience.
Will there be any forms of facilitation?
Students with disabilities between 66% and 100%, or certification pursuant to Law no. 104, will be exempted from paying the enrolment fee, and will be only required to pay the pre-enrolment fee, the insurance fee, and stamp duties.
PA and top grades: PA employees enrolling in our Master, will enjoy a €330 reduction on the second registration instalment. Moreover, the PA Department will award 50% of the enrolment fee paid by the student. For further information, refer to the Protocol pages, on the PA Department institutional website:
https://www.funzionepubblica.gov.it/formazione/pa-110-e-lode
https://presidenza.governo.it/AmministrazioneTrasparente/Sovvenzioni/
CriteriModalita/DFP/PA110eLode/DcrCD_20230808_criteriPA110.pdf
University staff with an open-ended employment contract may enrol in the course. The enrolment fee for University Technical-Administrative Staff is equal to the minimum enrolment fee, as established by Article 24, p. 1 of the University Regulation for Master Courses, Post-Graduate and Higher Education Courses of the University of Padua, and is equal to 20% of the fee. If the staff with open-ended labour contract possesses the requirements to enrol in the Course, once the Master is over, they will obtain the related Title or Diploma, or, if they do not possess the selection requirements, they may attend as Auditors and obtain an Attendance Certificate.
What are some of the career opportunities after completing the Master?
The Master trains the following figures: Clinical Product Specialist (product management), Clinical Manager and Scientific Affair Specialist.
Those are only some of the many career opportunities available to those who will complete the Master course. The medical device and healthcare companies sector offers a broad range of professional opportunities, allowing to find a role compatible with those specific skills. The opportunities will depend on the labour demand by companies.
How will the course be structured?
The Master will be held in a blended mode, with online asynchronous (on demand) lessons, guided study, and homework for self-assessment. While the hands-on learning (if applicable) will be carried out at the University of Padua. The internships and apprenticeships will be held at partner companies/enterprises all over the national territory. There will be also a final Project Work. Attendance is mandatory for at least 70% of the online lessons, in order to obtain the title and attendance certificate.
Classes start:
02/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
blended
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.522,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Sabrina Cervesato
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Segreteria - Unità di Biostatistica, Epidemiologia e Sanità Pubblica
Phone:
331 2601668
Email:
segreteria.master@ubep.unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top