Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/crds-sports-cardiology/

Skip to content
Second level university master
CRDS
Sports Cardiology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
CRDS - Sports Cardiology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
CRDS - Sports Cardiology
The
Second-level short specialisation degree in Sports Cardiology
explores theoretical and practical knowledge in the diagnosis, risk stratification and medical management of athletes suffering from cardiovascular diseases.
The training course covers also emerging topics, such as
risk assessment in non-professional athletes
, physical activity for rehabilitation of patients suffering from cardiovascular diseases, and cardiovascular emergency management in playing fields.
Attendees will become autonomous in improving the interaction skills with medical
cardiology consultants
, electrophysiologists, hemodynamic and sports doctors, involved in the athlete’s multidisciplinary management.
Educational content
The
Second-level short specialisation degree
in Sports Cardiology
covers the execution and interpretation of cardiology instrumental exams in athletes, and the clinical management of athletes suffering from cardiac diseases.
Furthermore, the course trains attendees in becoming autonomous in assessing athletes with suspect cardiac disease and in expressing an evaluation for cardiovascular eligibility to sports practice.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Second-level short specialisation degree
in Sports Cardiology
helps train surgeons in charge of cardiovascular evaluation and medical management of professional and non-professional athletes, from a technical and scientific standpoint, both in sports medicine and as specialist sports doctor consultants.
The purpose of the training course is increasing professional autonomy in the following fields:
execution and interpretation of
ECG
,
stress testing
,
cardiopulmonary
testing and
echocardiogram
in athletes;
interpretation of cardiac
MRI
and
molecular genetic
surveys in athletes;
participation in the medical management of athletes suffering from heart disease, with particular reference to the evaluation of cardiovascular eligibility to sports practice.
management of the
main cardiovascular emergencies
in playing fields.
Course program
The
Second-level short specialisation degree
in Sports Cardiology
provides training according to three thematic areas:
AREA 1 –
Cardiovascular risk during sports activities
Hemodynamic and cardiovascular remodelling of the heart of an athlete
Sudden cardiovascular death pathology during sports
Epidemiology and causes of cardiac arrest in athletes
Screening to identify the athletes with a risk of cardiovascular complications
Ethical and medical-legal aspects of screening and doping
AREA 2 –
Cardiovascular evaluation in athletes
Imaging with CT scan in sports cardiology
ECG interpretation in athletes
Cardiovascular stress and cardio-pulmonary testing
Echocardiographic imaging in athletes
Imaging with cardiac MRI in athletes
Molecular genetics in sports cardiology
AREA 3 –
Managing athletes with cardiac diseases
Managing athletes with congenital heart disease
Managing athletes with arrhythmia
Managing athletes with coronary artery disease or heart valve disease
Managing athletes with cardiomyopathy or channelopathy
Evaluation of athletes with syncopation
Sports practice in athletes with pacemaker and ICD
Cardiovascular rehabilitation
Managing cardiac emergencies in athletes
Italian protocols of fitness for competitive sports
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2023/24 will be published on the Italian page of this Second-level short specialisation degree according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
27/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
15
Maximum available spots:
50
First instalment:
€
									1.722,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.000,00
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
How is the course organized?
The Second-level short specialisation degree consists in one year of lessons at the Cardiology Clinic of the University of Padua. In addition, students must attend specialized cardiology, electrophysiology, cardiovascular imaging and ergospirometry labs of the U.O. of Cardiology, at the University Hospital of Padua as observers.
Lastly, the attendees will take part in seminars on sports cardiology, and will attend specialized cardiology labs of the U.O. of Cardiology, at the University Hospital of Padua as observers. Attendance is mandatory.
Will there be any care activities on patients?
No, only clinical observation activities will be performed.
Will there be a final exam?
Yes, the final exam will require the presentation and discussion of an individual research (dissertation or original project).
Classes start:
11/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
Dual-mode
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.722,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Domenico Corrado
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Domenico Corrado
Phone:
0498212458
Email:
domenico.corrado@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top