Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/cs-contemplative-studies/

Skip to content
First level university master
CS
Contemplative studies
Meditation from ancient traditions to contemporary age
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
CS - Contemplative studies
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
CS - Contemplative studies
The
Contemplative Studies
Postgraduate Programme is
focused entirely on meditation
. It aims to revisit our lifestyles and practices in a sustainable and conscious way by documenting and promoting the benefits of contemplative practice in different sectors of society, such as education, healthcare, work and personal growth. Over
200 hours of guided meditation practice lead students through six types of training
, which include both traditional and modern approaches. Ideas from the fields of psychology and neuroscience offer a modern insight on meditation, while those from the fields of philosophy, sociology and history of religion help contextualise its practice within the Hindu, Buddhist, Christian, Hellenistic and Islamic traditions. Students will acquire the tools needed to guide meditations for both individuals and groups, while developing the critical thinking skills required to tackle the cultural and ethical challenges linked to the spread of meditation in modern society.
Educational content
The programme offers
multidisciplinary competencies and cross-cultural perspectives on meditation
, with emphasis on Buddhist contemplative practices. In particular, it covers modern meditative programmes for
stress reduction
,
emotional balance
and the
development of various life-and soft-skills
, as well as providing tools for introducing contemplative practices into various contexts in our society.
The programme is comprised of various kinds of classes and activities, both in person and online, taught by leading international experts in the field. In particular, there will be:
Weekend programmes taking place at the University of Padua once per month (about one per month, Saturday and Sunday, in person).
Meditation retreats at some of the most important Buddhist monasteries and meditation centres in Italy.
Guided meditation sessions offered remotely on weekday evenings, scheduled weekly throughout the programme. These are aimed at promoting continuity of the practice and assisting participants in the assimilation of their contemplative experience. Students will be asked to dedicate 30-40 minutes to daily meditative practice for the duration of the programme.
Sharing and debate sessions scheduled on a regular basis to promote content integration and to encourage students to share their thoughts.
Project work that will allow students to delve deeper into a contemplative training of their choice and to develop a project related to the introduction and application of contemplative perspectives and practices in a specific sector of society.
Course target and career opportunities
The programme helps students acquire sound
theoretical knowledge and practical skills specific to the field of meditation
,
mindfulness
and
contemplative practices
. It is also aimed at those who intend to implement these approaches in their profession, such as in the fields of care and education. Specifically, the programme:
Develops multidisciplinary expertise useful in teaching meditation, mindfulness and other related practices;
Explores programmes related to stress reduction, emotional balance and the development of soft- and life-skills, as well as various abilities that are also applicable to therapeutic settings, thus addressing physicians, psychologists, psychotherapists, nurses and other care professionals;
Provides tools for introducing contemplative practices into pedagogical contexts and thus addresses educators and teachers at all levels; and
Also addresses scholars, researchers, practitioners and teachers of meditation, as well as other figures dedicated to the study, application and diffusion of traditional and modern contemplative approaches.
Course program
AREA 1.
TRADITIONAL APPROACHES TO CONTEMPLATIVE PRACTICES
Intercultural Paths Between Philosophy and Mysticism
• Intercultural approaches to contemplative experience
• Similarities between philosophy and mystical experience in different cultural contexts; focus on: contemplative experiences in China, Christian mysticism, Kashmir Tantrism, and intersections between contemporary East and West spiritual experiences
Mysticism in Hellenism, Christianity and the Middle East
• Contemplative experience in ancient times and the Middle Ages; focus on contemplative practices between Ancient Greece and India and between Greek philosophy and late-antiquity Christianity, as well as in Neoplatonism, in ancient Eastern churches and in Medieval Christianity
Contemplative Practice and Mystical Experience in Sufism
• Sufism in the context of the Arabic-Islamic tradition
• The Sufi practice, past and present
Mystical-Ascetic Traditions in Hinduism
• Issues around contemplative practice in India, from its beginnings to Advaita Vedanta
Theravada Buddhism and Vipassana Meditation
• The philosophy of the Pali Canon
• A theoretical and practical approach to mindfulness meditation in the Pali Canon – TRAINING
• Vipassana – RETREAT
Mahayana Buddhism in India
• Historical and philosophical developments
• Theoretical, ethical and contemplative issues
Forms of Meditation in Tibetan Buddhism
• The purpose and methods of meditation
• Analytical meditation – TRAINING
• Stabilising meditation – TRAINING
Zen and Its Practices
• Central issues in Zen theory and practice
• Dogen’s philosophy
• Meditation on koans – TRAINING & RETREAT
• Zazen meditation – TRAINING & RETREAT
AREA 2.
CONTEMPORARY APPROACHES TO CONTEMPLATIVE PRACTICES
Contemplative Studies
• The epistemological framework of Contemplative Studies
• Debate sessions to promote content integration
Contributions of Psychology to Contemplative Studies
• Psychology’s contributions to the topic of contemplative practices
• Psychological theories, research and challenges in the study of spiritual experience and self-perception in a relational and intercultural perspective
Neuroscientific Perspectives on the Contemplative Experience
• Implications and neural/somatic correlations in the contemplative experience
• Neuroscientific approaches to the religious experience
Sociological Contributions
• The new religious movements: between religion and spirituality
AREA 3.
APPLICATIONS OF CONTEMPLATIVE PRACTICES
Mindfulness, Stress Reduction and Emotional Regulation
• A social-cognitive approach to mindfulness and its benefits
• Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction – TRAINING
• Cultivating Emotional Balance – TRAINING
Meditation Approaches to Develop Compassion
• Compassion, empathy and altruism: a comparison between Western psychology and Buddhism
• Meditative training in compassion – TRAINING
Applications in Education
• A theoretical and experiential approach to contemplative educational methods
Resources for Leading Group Meditation Practices
• Trauma-sensitive approaches
• Resources for leading group meditation practices
The contributions of the Italian Buddhist Union
Our partnership with the
Italian Buddhist Union
provides qualified meditation trainers: masters and experts with vast experience in the contemplative traditions. It also allows the programme’s retreats to take place at monasteries and meditation centres. Finally, the Italian Buddhist Union provides
eight scholarships
(see FAQ section for award criteria).
CONGRESS ACTIVITIES
As part of the extracurricular activities of the programme, conferences, seminars, and workshops are sometimes organized to allow students to stay updated on the latest frontiers of contemplative research and feel part of the growth of this research field. Among the events organized in 2024:
The Elephant in the Room: Investigating Consciousness Beyond Reductionism
, an international conference that brought together some of the world’s leading experts in consciousness research – from neuroscience, philosophy, quantum physics, and contemplative studies – to engage in three days of discussion on one of the greatest unresolved mysteries of our time.
Embodied Cognition and Intersubjectivity in Uncertain Times: Interdisciplinary Frameworks for Contemplative Research and Education
, one of the most significant global events of the year for research and education in the field of meditation and contemplative practices; a five-day event featuring over two hundred scholars and researchers from around the world. Organized within the programme activities, the conference is the result of collaboration between the University of Padua, the
Italian Buddhist Union’s Research Center
, and two of the main European and international organizations for contemplative research:
Mind and Life Europe
and the
International Society for Contemplative Research
.
Religions and Meditation
, a study day focused on forms of meditation promoted by various religious traditions, organized in collaboration with the
Istituto Superiore di Scienze Religiose (Issr)
in Padua, affiliated with the Triveneto Theological Faculty, and the
Italian Buddhist Union Research Center
.
Video pills
The Master in Contemplative Studies explained in a minute
In this video you will have an overview of the programme’s educational contents directly from the faculty members who made this interweaving of professionalism, experience and disciplines possible.
This playlist collects interviews with some of the programme’s faculty members and lecturers, in which they elaborate on the various aspects of the training.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Mind and psycho-physical well-being
End of classes:
25/10/2026
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
18
Maximum available spots:
48
First instalment:
€
									2.002,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.326,50
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
Will the programme include internships, traineeships or project work?
In the final stage of the training course, students are required to complete project work aimed at deepening their knowledge and expertise in one of the meditative approaches covered during the two-year course, but also at devising a project for introducing contemplative perspectives and practices in society.
Will scholarships be available?
Eight scholarships worth 1.484,50 Euro each (gross)
have been made available to successful candidates. The criteria for their awarding are: resume (75 points), dissertation (15 points) and other publications (10 points); the motivation letter will be considered a complementary element in the evaluation of the curriculum vitae.
The scholarships will be disbursed automatically by the Department in order of merit after the enrolment phase; as such, those who pre-enrol do not have to do anything extra in order to apply. The scholarships will be awarded based on the selection criteria (see Selection Notice for details on award criteria).
What certifications will be awarded at the end of the programme?
After passing the final oral exam, the First-Level Programme Diploma “Contemplative Studies: Meditation from Ancient Traditions to Contemporary Age” will be awarded. Upon request, a certificate of educational activities, including successfully completed meditation trainings and retreats, will be issued for each student during the two-year programme.
Is there a minimum attendance requirement? How are remote activities conducted? Where do retreats take place?
Remote activities will be conducted over Zoom, while downloadable educational materials and other distance learning functions will use the Moodle platform. All lectures (including those in person) will be recorded and will remain available for the entire two-year period.
The various course activities will primarily be based in classrooms at the University of Padova, via Venezia 12. In addition, retreats and practice activities are planned in other locations, including monasteries and meditation centres affiliated with the Italian Buddhist Union.
The programme is mainly comprised of in-person teaching hours (concentrated around weekends) and a smaller proportion of online hours (scheduled on weekday evenings, once a week, for the duration of the programme). For both activities, students are required to maintain a minimum 70% attendance rate (attendance will be taken for both in-person and remote lectures). In exceptional circumstances, it is possible to opt for the “synchronous online attendance,” which allows the students to remotely attend for up to a maximum of 20% of the theoretical activities for which in-person participation would be required.
Who teaches the programme?
Here are the teachers of the various programmes:
International Teachers (Italian translation will be provided)
Gonzalo Brito Pons
John D. Dunne
Jampa Gelek
Kenneth J. Gergen
Kiyozumi Ishii Seijun
Thupten Jinpa
Harold D. Roth
Saki F. Santorelli
Tenzin Tenphel
B. Alan Wallace
Italian Teachers
Vittoria Ardino
Mauro Bergonzi
Paolo Bettiolo
Giorgio Bonaccorso
Adone Brandalise
Andrea Capellari
Paolo Francesco Cottone
Chiara Cremonesi
Maria Grazia Crepaldi
Amina Crisma
Franco Cucchio
Nicola De Pisapia
Valentina Dolara
Fabrizio Ferrari
Giulia Fuochi
Marcello Ghilardi
Giuseppe Giordan
Giuliano Giustarini
Massimo Gusmano
Pier Luigi Lattuada
Salvatore Lavecchia
Gioia Lussana
Emanuela Magno
Cecilia Martini
Chiara Mascarello
Constance Miller
Enrico Moro
Giovanni Nubile
Giacomella Orofino
Francesco Pagnini
Arianna Palmieri
Giangiorgio Pasqualotto
Gianni Pellegrini
Gabriele Piana
Massimo Raveri
Mohammed Khalid Rhazzali
Antonio Rigopoulos
Diego Romaioli
Fabian Sanders
Carlo Tetsugen Serra
Alessio Surian
Ines Testoni
Mario Thanavaro Proscia
Aldo Tollini
Francesco Tormen
Elena Seishin Viviani
Alberto Voci
Classes start:
30/11/2024
Duration:
Two-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.329,00
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Diego Romaioli - Organising Committee: Marcello Ghilardi, Chiara Mascarello, Mohammed Khalid Rhazzali, Diego Romaioli, Francesco Tormen, Carlo Serra, Alberto Voci
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Emma Bano
Phone:
366 770 2507
Email:
master.contemplativestudies@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top