Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/dpds-developmental-disorders-and-pathologies/

Skip to content
Second level university master
DPDS
Developmental Disorders and Pathologies
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
DPDS - Developmental Disorders and Pathologies
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
DPDS - Developmental Disorders and Pathologies
The
Second-level short specialisation degree
in Developmental Disorders and Pathologies
prepares child psychology and neuropsychiatry experts to acquire a solid diagnostic and intervention methodology, concerning neurodevelopment and psychopathology disorders at developmental stages.
The course deals with the
main developmental disorders
, through sample cases and hands-on practice. It presents the diagnostic tools and rehabilitative and psycho-educational intervention techniques with proven results, useful to identify the symptoms of clinical cases and the level of severity of the disorders.
The Master’s Course provides a scientifically-sound diagnostic and operational methodology to treat
developmental psychopathologies
.
Educational content
The course units of the Second-level short specialisation Degree in Developmental Disorders and Pathologies treat several fields of
developmental psychopathology
:
Anxiety and mood disorders in children and adolescents;
Assessment and intervention on Neurodevelopmental Disorders’ behavioural and relational aspects;
ADHD: behavioural, relational, parent training aspects;
Autistic Spectrum disorders;
Intellectual disabilities and genetic syndromes;
Non-Verbal disorder;
Motor coordination development disorder;
Personality disorders;
Psychopathology of addictions;
Dysfunctional families and family intervention;
Bullying and psychopathology in adolescents;
Assessment of the intervention’s effectiveness and outcome indicators.
For the majority of the disorders treated during the theoretical lessons, there will be full days dedicated to in-class debates and hands-on practice with
psycho-diagnostic tools
on the medical cases proposed by the Master’s professors or by the students. The course professors include some of the leading experts on developmental psychopathology at national and international level.
Course target and career opportunities
The Second-level short specialisation degree in Developmental Disorders and Pathologies is addresses to developmental psychopathology professionals, and provides training on the
psychological and psychoeducational techniques
used in this field. Competencies include clinical diagnosis, reference theoretical models, rehabilitation treatments and situations where a combined intervention (rehabilitation, psychological, psychoeducational and pharmacological) is required.
The professional figures (child psychologists and neuro-psychiatrists) formed by the course will become expert in identifying – based on the diagnosis – the
implications and evolutionary trajectories of the disorders
, and therefore suggest targeted interventions.
Particular attention is paid to those techniques not expressly covered by graduate schools (e.g.
parent training
,
coping power
,
Teacch
,
Denver
,
ABA
, etc).
Course program
The Second-level short specialisation degree in Developmental Disorders and Pathologies provides training on:
Module 1:
ASSESSMENT AND DIAGNOSTIC CLASSIFICATION
It presents the main tools to diagnose the disorders in children and adolescents.
Module 2:
ANXIETY AND MOOD DISORDERS
It analyses and mood disorders in children and adolescents, social phobia in children and adolescents, and related pharmacology.
Module 3:
AUTISTIC SPECTRUM DISORDERS
It deals with how to assess and intervene on Neurodevelopmental Disorders’ behavioural and relational aspects
Module 4:
PARENTAL BEHAVIOUR AND DEVELOPMENTAL PSYCHOPATHOLOGIES
It deals with how to assess and intervene on parental behaviour and psychopathological consequences.
Module 5:
BULLYING AND PSYCHOPATHOLOGY IN ADOLESCENTS
It describes the theoretical and intervention models on bullying and other adolescent-related psychopathologies (substance abuse and eating disorders).
Module 6:
DISRUPTIVE BEHAVIOUR AND UNCONTROLLED IMPULSE DISORDERS
It describes the theoretical, assessment and intervention models concerning: oppositional defiant disorder, conduct disorder, ADHD and behavioural disorders pharmacology.
Module 7:
ABILITY TO ADAPT IN DEVELOPMENTAL PSYCHOPATHOLOGY
It deals with developmental and intercultural disorders, psycho-paediatric oncology and ability to adapt of developmental disorders.
Module 8:
INTELLECTUAL AND MOTOR DISABILITIES
It deals with genetic syndromes, intellectual disabilities and motor skills developmental disorder.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2023/24 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Mind and psycho-physical well-being
End of classes:
13/09/2024
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
15
Maximum available spots:
38
Single instalment:
€
									2.822,50
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
Will there be a traineeship?
Yes, there will be a 250-hour traineeship to be completed within the Padua University’s partner facilities, based on the Master’s requirements.
On what disorders is the Master's Course more focused on?
The Master’s Course provides cognitive and operative tools (from diagnostic methods to the different forms of intervention) on the following neurodevelopmental disorders or
developmental psychopathologies
: anxiety and mood disorders; ADHD; autism spectrum disorders; personality disorders; intellectual disabilities; adolescence issues (bullying, eating disorders, substance abuse); motor coordination disorders.
Will there be a final Master's exam and a dissertation?
The Master’s include a final exam to assess the general acquisition of the contents covered during the lessons, and the drafting and
discussion of a dissertation,
whose topic can cover the results of a research on developmental disorders, or the description of a clinical case.
When will the lessons be held, and according to what schedule?
The lessons of the Second-level short specialisation degree in Developmental Disorders and Pathologies will be held on Friday (10 am – 6 pm) and Saturday (9 am – 5 pm) every two weeks. Attendance of at least 70% of classes during the year is mandatory.
Classes start:
23/11/2023
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.822,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
06/10/2023
Management
Prof. Irene Cristina Mammarella
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
DPSS – Università di Padova
Phone:
0498276529
Email:
master.psicopatologie@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top