Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/eba-basic-and-advanced-echocardiography/

Skip to content
First level university master
EBA
Basic and advanced echocardiography
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
EBA - Basic and advanced echocardiography
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
EBA - Basic and advanced echocardiography
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree in Basic and Advanced Echocardiography
prepares healthcare professionals to execute echocardiographic exams in dedicated labs, under medical supervision.
This training project is aimed at acquiring
specific abilities
, since the echocardiographic exam does not follow a unique protocol for all cardiac diseases. Images and Doppler tests must be adapted to the cardiac disease(s) present in a patient. This requires the knowledge of specific data acquired to define the diagnosis, prognosis and
personalized treatment indications
.
The
combination of theoretical lessons
and
lab practice
of the Master, aims at providing the skills to perform accurate and thorough exams, with the help of a tutor. Furthermore, the lab practice trains attendees on how to communicate effectively with patients and doctors.
Educational content
The knowledge transmitted and the topics covered by the
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Basic and Advanced Echocardiography
include:
anatomy and physiology of the cardiovascular system;
physiopathology of the main congenital and acquired cardiac diseases;
ultrasound physics;
image formation with ultrasounds;
principles of Doppler echocardiography;
principles of hemodynamic;
echocardiographic anatomy in physiological and pathological conditions;
indications and contraindications related to the different echocardiographic methods (transthoracic, transesophageal, stress eco, tissue Doppler, 3D Doppler, contrast);
hemodynamic imaging and assessment;
echocardiography of congenital and acquired cardiac diseases.
Course target and career opportunities
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Basic and Advanced Echocardiography
trains highly specialized professional figures who acquire the skills to
execute Echocardiographic exams in echocardiography labs under medical supervision.
Attendees will learn in-depth notions of anatomy and physiology of the cardiovascular system;
physiopathology of the main congenital and acquired cardiac diseases and ultrasound physics, as well as training on ultrasound images to enhance the quality of their education on the matter, with the most accurate specialization possible.
Course program
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Basic and Advanced Echocardiography
provides training on three thematic areas:
Anatomic area
Anatomy/physiology
Cardiovascular physiology
Cardiovascular anatomy
Echocardiovascular anatomy
Cardiovascular physiopathology
Cardiological area
Cardiology
Cardiology medicine
Diagnostic area
Diagnostic imaging
Diagnostic images
Basic echocardiography
Exam execution techniques and methods
Advanced echocardiography
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2024
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
12
Maximum available spots:
100
First instalment:
€
									1.584,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.040,50
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
How is the course organized?
The First-level Short Specialisation Degree, at national level, comprises a
blended educational format
, with the
theoretical part
provided entirely remotely, using the technological virtual classroom model, and the
hands-on practice
hosted at the University or affiliated company nearest to the attendee’s residence.
This will allow a uniformed theoretical education on the entire national territory, significant time and cost savings for attendees (who will no longer need to undertake long and costly trips to follow the hands-on practice in the reference lab), and significant savings for the NHS in terms of student permits.
Attendees will attend the
echocardiographic lab
for a total of 200 hours, to learn how to perform complete echocardiography exams, acquire images and perform correct measurements of the different medical conditions, under the guide of a tutor.
Will there be any care activities?
No, only clinical observation activities will be performed.
Will there be a final exam?
The final test will be written, oral and practical.
Classes start:
18/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
blended
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.625,00
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Francesco Tona
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Barbara Hildenbrand
Phone:
0498218642
Email:
barbara.hildenbrand@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top