Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/elfis-basic-and-advanced-electrophysiology/

Skip to content
First level university master
ELFIS
Basic and Advanced Electrophysiology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
ELFIS - Basic and Advanced Electrophysiology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
ELFIS - Basic and Advanced Electrophysiology
The Master joins the second extraordinary pre-enrolment term from the 4th to the 25th November 2024, 12.30 pm.
The First-level Short Specialisation Degree in Basic and Advanced Electrophysiology prepares professional figures to perform checks on pacemakers and defibrillators, manage an electrophysiology room and work with doctors on interventional procedures.
The course will explore topics of electrophysiology, electrocardiography, cardiostimulation/device control, heart and conduction system anatomy, telematic pacemaker and defibrillator check, electrophysiology room management. In addition, hands-on
practice
at the clinic and in the rooms prepares for an effective and efficient communication with patients and doctors. The purpose of the Master is training
electrophysiology technicians
capable of explaining the risk and benefits of the exams and obtain collaboration for remote medicine, and interact professionally with others.
Educational content
The course units of the
First-level Short Specialisation Degree in Basic and Advanced Electrophysiology
deal with the following knowledge and topics:
electrophysiology;
electrocardiography;
cardiac stimulation/device control;
heart and conduction system anatomy;
telematic pacemaker and defibrillator control;
electrophysiology room management.
Course target and career opportunities
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Basic and Advanced Echocardiography
trains electrophysiology technicians – a professional figure that does not yet exist in Italy, while it is widespread in international labs.
The role of the technician is
assisting the doctor during electrophysiology procedures, by managing the different equipment used for ablation procedures
(virtual navigation systems, radiofrequency ablators, crioablation consoles, etc.). Currently, these tasks are carried out by several professional figures (doctors, nurses, external technicians, etc.).
Furthermore, the Master provides all the knowledge necessary on the materials used in the room (electrocateters, defibrillators, biventricular units and pace markers). Attendees will be able to carry out checks on the devices, both with a programmer and in telemedicine mode, and to manage a virtual electrophysiology lab remotely.
A unique and
complete room and telemedicine assistant
is thus created.
Course program
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Basic and Advanced Electrophysiology
provides training on three thematic areas:
Electrophysiology area
Electrophysiology
Basic electrophysiology
Advanced electrophysiology
Electrocardiographic area
Electrocardiography
Conduction system anatomy
Basic electrocardiography
Advanced electrocardiography
Management area
Cardiac stimulation/device control
Cardiac stimulation indications
Defibrillator and biventricular system indications
Implant techniques
In-clinic telematic pacemaker and defibrillator control
Telemedicine control
Electrophysiology room management
Holter reading
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
50
First instalment:
€
									1.585,00
Second instalment:
€
									1.040,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
How is the course organized?
Attendees will be required to attend one year at the UO of Cardiology of Padua for
theoretical lessons
, and an electrophysiology lab for the
traineeship
, where they will acquire several competencies.
Furthermore, attendees will participate in
periodical seminars, hands-on practice and labs
.
Their learning capacity will be tested with a written test halfway through the year, in order to highlight any lacks that can be bridged during the rest of the year.
Attendees will attend the electrophysiology lab for a total of 200 hours, to learn how to carry out the electrophysiology procedures, under the guide of a tutor, and manage the different equipment and materials in the room (electocateters, defibrillators, biventricular units and pacemakers).
Will there be any care activities?
No, only clinical observation activities will be performed.
How will the traineeship be carried out?
The traineeship will be carried out at the electrophysiology lab, to learn how to assess all complete electrophysiological procedure and manage an electrophysiology lab, under the guidance of a tutor.
Classes start:
14/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.625,00
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Dr. Loira Leoni
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Barbara Hildenbrand
Phone:
0498218642
Email:
barbara.hildenbrand@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top