Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/ensac-endocrine-surgery/

Skip to content
Post graduate programme
ENSAC
Endocrine surgery
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
ENSAC - Endocrine surgery
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
ENSAC - Endocrine surgery
The Course joins the second extraordinary pre-enrolment term from the 4th to the 25th November 2024, 12.30 pm
The
Post-Graduate Course in Endocrine Surgery
prepares expert surgeons, capable of diagnosing, treating and managing functional and neoplastic pathologies of the thyroid gland, parathyroid glands and adrenal glands.
The course focuses on their surgical treatment, on the medical management of endocrine pathology, and on the main anatomopathological characteristics, by attending in-clinic activities, lessons and the operating room, with direct approach to diagnostic-therapeutic paths and surgical techniques.
The Post-Graduate Course in Endocrine Surgery trains expert professional figures with ultraspecialized and multidisciplinary competencies, and is directed by Prof. M. Iacobone.
Educational content
The course units of the Post-Graduate Course in Endocrine Surgery mainly focus on standard and mini-invasive endocrine surgery on neck and abdomen (hemithyroidectomy and total thyroidectomy, with possible intra-operative neuromonitoring, central and lateral neck lymphadenectomy, selective parathyroidectomy, bilateral neck exploration, total adrenalectomy and
cortical-sparing
).
Pre-, intra- and post-operatory management is based on the guidelines introduced by leading international scientific associations, with
multidisciplinary management
of the most complex cases. Apart from activities in the operating room, the operative unit has divisional clinics where endocrine surgery specialist visits are carried out, and a specialist clinic to carry out eco-guided fine-needle aspiration in the neck region. Regular frequentation of the operating room and of the dedicated clinics helps to master ultra-specialist surgical competencies in the neck and abdomen-retroperitoneal regions. Furthermore, the lessons will focus on thyroidal, parathyroidal, adrenal and pancreatic pathologies, and on polyendocrine syndromes.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Post-Graduate Course in Endocrine Surgery
is addressed to professionally trained graduates in Medicine and Surgery.
The professional figures formed become top-level experts, with particular focus on ultra-specialist and multidisciplinary competencies in diagnostic paths, surgical management and clinical management of endocrine pathologies of surgical interest (both thyroidal, parathyroidal, adrenal and pancreatic), and in the recognition of the main anatomopathological characteristics of cytological and histological samples, for a correct pre-operative and intra-operative management of the pathology, and the correct post-operative management of the patient.
Course program
The
Post-Graduate Course in Endocrine Surgery
provides specific training on:
ENDOCRINE SURGERY
Management of thyroidal, parathyroidal, adrenal and pancreatic pathologies, and of multiple endocrine neoplasms.
SURGICAL THYROID DISORDER DIAGNOSTICS
Management of endocrine-surgical thyroidal pathologies, and of multiple endocrine neoplasms.
ANATOMOPATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSTICS
Anatomopathological diagnostics of endocrine-surgical pathologies.
ENDOCRINE SURGERY
New endocrine surgery technologies.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2023/24 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
27/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
35
Single instalment:
€
									722,50
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
How many accesses to the operating room does the EnSAC Course ensure?
Course attendants may access the operating room at any time, during the Course, by agreeing their presence with the Course Director in advance.
Is participation to multidisciplinary meetings included?
Course attendees may participate to multidisciplinary meetings as observers, and at the Course Director’s in-person meetings.
Will it be possible to discuss the clinical cases with the professors during the Course?
Professors are available to discuss the clinical cases, especially focused on the weekly surgical and clinic activities, during classes.
Will specific documents for theoretical practice will be provided during the Post-Graduate Course?
Although no specific educational materials will be provided, Course attendants may receive detailed indications on the scientific materials in literature, and on more thorough texts to acquire the theoretical competencies required to pass the Course.
Where will hands-on lessons be held?
Hands-on lessons will be held at the Endocrine-Surgery U.O.C of the University Hospital of Padua, where approximately 600 surgeries for endocrine pathologies are carried out every year.
Classes start:
20/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
18
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							722,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Maurizio Iacobone
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Maurizio Iacobone
Phone:
0498211815
Email:
maurizio.iacobone@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top