Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/envad-endoscopy-of-airways-and-the-digestive-tract-in-newborns-and-children/

Skip to content
Second level university master
ENVAD
Endoscopy of Airways and the Digestive Tract in Newborns and Children
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
ENVAD - Endoscopy of Airways and the Digestive Tract in Newborns and Children
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
ENVAD - Endoscopy of Airways and the Digestive Tract in Newborns and Children
Not activated for the a.y. 2024/2025
The
Second-level short specialisation degree
in Endoscopy of Airways and the Digestive Tract in Newborns and Children
provides training in the organisational, technical, practical, and theoretical aspects of performing endoscopies of airways and the digestive tract in the neonatal and paediatric fields.
It is intended to provide the specific skills for planning and performing endoscopies safely as per the most up-to-date guidelines and recommendations from scientific organisations, taking into account the unique characteristics of newborn and paediatric patients.
The Second-level short specialisation degree provides a professional approach in all areas in the field of
paediatric endoscopy
along with
adequate skills
to solve clinical problems, and come up with solutions and supporting arguments.
Educational content
The
Second-level short specialisation degree
in Endoscopy of Airways and the Digestive Tract in Newborns and Children
allows students to learn about
all of the techniques
currently used in the practice of digestive and airway endoscopy in the neonatal and paediatric fields.
The Second-level short specialisation degree also provides participants with the ability to
collect and interpret data
in the field of paediatric endoscopy, which can be useful for making independent judgements.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Second-level short specialisation degree in Endoscopy of Airways and the Digestive Tract in Newborns and Children
is meant for doctors in the surgical, gastroenterological, otorhinolaryngological, and pneumological fields who would like to begin performing endoscopies (or increase the number performed) on paediatric and neonatal patients.
The course allows the physician to go from having basic, theoretical knowledge to a more hands-on approach to the most important and frequently used procedures.
Course program
The
Second-level short specialisation degree
in Endoscopy of Airways and the Digestive Tract in Newborns and Children
will focus on training in three major areas:
AREA 1 –
Digestive Tract Endoscopy
UPPER GI endoscopy techniques
LOWER GI1 endoscopy techniques
Medical indications for digestive endoscopy
Oesophageal atresia and congenital stenosis of the oesophagus and other diagnostic and operative surgical indications
Achalasia and dysmotility of the proximal digestive tract from newborns to adults
Nutrition devices
Digestive bleeding
Caustic ingestion and foreign bodies
Biliopancreatic pathology
Ecoendoscopy
Transitional care and endoscopic surveillance
LOWER GI2 endoscopy techniques
LOWER GI3 endoscopy techniques
AREA 2 – Airway Endoscopy
Techniques and indications for endoscopic examinations of the UPPER AIRWAYS
Techniques and indications for endoscopic examinations of the LOWER AIRWAYS
Upper Airways
AREA 3 – Common Themes
Anatomy of the airways and digestive tract
Anaesthesiological aspects
Genetic aspects
Distinctive elements
Training with simulators
The use of mechanical or digital simulators to acquire basic skills has now become a fundamental and indispensable moment to start a learning curve.
The training includes an initial use with a tutor and a subsequent independent use, with a final check of the acquisition of the relevant competence.
Multidisciplinary meeting as an implementer of professional growth
It is possible to take part in the cadenced meeting of the Paediatric Gastroenterology Multidisciplinary Group, either in presence or remotely, in order to acquire an argued diagnostic and therapeutic method of taking charge and treating the different patients in a global sense.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Second-level short specialisation degree according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
8
First instalment:
€
									2.022,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.200,00
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
How are the classes organised?
Second-level short specialisation degree’s classes will be held three days a week, once a month from November 2024 to September 2025 at the University of Padua Hospital. Students will visit the operating theatres, the departments of the Paediatric Surgery and Otolaryngology operating units, and the operating theatre in Surgical Clinic 3.
The Gastroenterology department is where endoscopies take place and is also the location of the gastric oesophagus physiology clinic. Paediatric visits take place in the procedure room (“dream room”). Students will also be involved in cardiology visits, observing pacemaker and ICD implantation, observing and taking notes on cardiology examinations (stress tests, echocardiograms, cardiac MRIs).
The Second-level short specialisation degree also includes an internship and project work – 100 hours for each.
What kind of care work will be involved?
Care work will involve obtaining consent for the endoscopic examination, clinical assessment of the patient before the examination, multidisciplinary clinical discussion, assisting in the paediatric surgery operating room, paediatric procedure/endoscopy room, ENT operating theatre, and adult gastroenterology/endoscopy unit.
Will there be a final exam?
Yes, there will be an oral exam.
Is there a specific attendance percentage required?
Attendance is compulsory for at least 70% of the total number of course hours.
Classes start:
09/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.222,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Piergiorgio Gamba
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Magda Cassol
Phone:
0498213680
Email:
magda.cassol@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top