Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/estav-stress-transesophageal-advanced-echocardiography-and-integrated-cardiac-multimodality-imaging/

Skip to content
Second level university master
ESTAV
Stress, transesophageal, advanced echocardiography and integrated cardiac multimodality imaging
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
ESTAV - Stress, transesophageal, advanced echocardiography and integrated cardiac multimodality imaging
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
ESTAV - Stress, transesophageal, advanced echocardiography and integrated cardiac multimodality imaging
The
Master in Stress-Related, Transesophageal, and Advanced Echocardiography and Integrated Multimodality Cardiac Imaging
prepares echocardiography professionals in the following areas:
Physical and pharmacological stress-related echocardiography;
Transesophageal echocardiography;
3D echocardiography;
Speckle-tracking echocardiography;
Nonlinear contrast ultrasound imaging;
Coronary flow reserve analysis;
Intracardiac vortex analysis;
Echocardiography integrated with other cardiac imaging techniques.
Purpose of this course is the acquisition of the latest knowledge on stress-related and transesophageal echocardiography, and of advanced echocardiography techniques, including integrated echocardiographic imaging.
Learning content
The
Master in Stress-Related, Transesophageal, and Advanced Echocardiography and Integrated Multimodality Cardiac Imaging
provides in-depth knowledge on the following aspects: basic principles, indications and contraindications, execution methods, exam result interpretation, reporting methods, clinical applications, limits and advantages.
Information provided through echocardiography will be compared to other imaging techniques (computed tomography, MRI), also by analysing the application fields of integrated imaging.
Recipients and career opportunities
The
Master in Stress-Related, Transesophageal, and Advanced Echocardiography and Integrated Multimodality Cardiac Imaging
is an opportunity to elevate basic echocardiography professional profiles. The course is addressed to doctors with basic cardiology and echocardiography skills.
Career opportunities can be found in cardiology clinics, and in-patient, intensive care or surgery-related cardiology centres.
Course program
The
Master in Stress-Related, Transesophageal, and Advanced Echocardiography and Integrated Multimodality Cardiac Imaging
encompasses four training areas:
Stress-related echocardiography
Indications and contraindications
Type of stress and exam protocols
Stress-related echocardiography lab
Diagnostic appropriateness
Normal exams
Eco-stress and ischemia, liveliness, prognosis, contractile flow reserve, diastolic function, valvular diseases
Transesophageal echocardiography
Indications and contraindications
Exam protocols
Transesophageal echocardiography lab
Diagnostic appropriateness
Normal exams
Transesophageal echocardiography in valvular diseases, in the structural field, in congenital heart defects, in intensive care, in the search for embolic and endocarditis sources
Advanced echocardiography
Techniques
Applications
Diagnostic appropriateness
3D echocardiography, speckle-tracking, nonlinear contrast ultrasound imaging, coronary flow reserve and intracardiac vortex analysis
Integrated echocardiography
Correlation between echocardiography and MRI, computed tomography and nuclear cardiology for the main heart diseases
Clinical integration between different diagnostic techniques
Fusion imaging
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
30/09/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
10
Maximum available spots:
20
Single instalment:
€
									3.022,50
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
How long is the course and how is it structured?
The
Master in Stress-Related, Transesophageal, and Advanced Echocardiography and Integrated Multimodality Cardiac Imaging
lasts one year, and it is held at the Clinica Cardiologica of the University Hospital of Padua.
Mandatory attendance concerns 70% of the total hours.
Lessons are held by the University Hospital of Padua’s internal faculty.
The course includes:
Synchronous remote lessons to promote the student/professor interaction;
Asynchronous remote lessons to deepen the concepts;
In-classroom lessons with workshops (group tests on simulators, discussion of clinical cases);
An internship at the Cardiology Ward echocardiography labs for clinical observation activities (no patient care activities will be provided during this period).
Part of the course will be devoted to the development of an individual Project Work (300 hours), tutored by a Master’s professor, and an internship (200 hours) at the Clinica Cardiologica. The final exam will include a dissertation on the Project Work.
How is the internship structured?
Attendance at the Clinica Cardiologica echocardiography clinics and haemodynamic labs to observe structural interventions are scheduled also based on the number of attendees. Once the enrolment phase is closed, attendees will be contacted to define the schedule.
Will there be a final exam?
Yes, there will be a final oral exam, where the individual Project Work will be assessed.
Will there be any patient care activities during the internship?
No, there will only be clinical observation activities.
Classes start:
11/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
Distance learning
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.022,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Donato Mele
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Donato Mele
Phone:
0498212458
Email:
donato.mele@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top