Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/face-orthodontics-with-straight-arch-technique/

Skip to content
Second level university master
FACE
Orthodontics with Straight-Arch Technique
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
FACE - Orthodontics with Straight-Arch Technique
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
FACE - Orthodontics with Straight-Arch Technique
The
Master in Orthodontic Sciences with Straight Wire Technique
trains, updates and guides students on how to manage an orthodontics case with a buccal
straightwire
procedure. Students learn how to formulate the correct diagnosis and plan a suitable treatment plan for simple and complex clinical cases. Particular emphasis is given to the clinical management of multidisciplinary cases. The course will include in-classroom lessons and specific modules on peculiar topics, such as articulator mounting, bonding, treatment selection, and treatment aids (palate expander, miniscrews, FACE braces, etc.).
Educational content
The
Master in Orthodontic Sciences with Straight Wire Technique
provides training on direct bonding procedures, the selection of the ideal archwire sequence, and the proper bracket treatments, based on the patient’s malocclusion.
Students will acquire the fundamentals to
treat Class II and III cases,
with non-compliance equipment integrated within the braces (palate skeletal anchoring systems). The course describes the integration of the buccal
straightwire
braces with certain customized aligner systems. Attendants will familiarize with scientific literature to understand the advantages of this technique compared to traditional buccal or removable aligner techniques. Moreover, they will learn how to use this technique on adolescent and adult patients, with high efficacy and aesthetic requests.
Course target and career opportunities
The Master in Orthodontic Sciences with Straight Wire Technique
is
addressed to all dentists specialized in orthodontics, or who wish to deepen their knowledge of buccal
straightwire
techniques.
Master course attendees will learn how to gather excellent photographic documents, analyse x-rays, formulate the correct diagnosis, and suggest an appropriate treatment plan.
They will also learn how to manage direct and indirect bonding procedures and different clinical stages, including stabilization and containment. The course provides specific competences on the multidisciplinary approach of adult patients with complex malocclusions.
By completing the Master course, attendees will have the chance of proposing themselves as expert consultants in the buccal technique in dental clinics.
Course program
The
Master in Orthodontic Sciences with Straight Wire Technique
provides expert knowledge on the following topics:
Straightwire
technique characteristics, comparison with other orthodontics techniques
Braces characteristics according to Roth’s philosophy
Ligating procedures according to the Face technique
Archwire sequence based on the malocclusion types
Biomechanics in the
straightwire
technique
Direct and indirect bonding techniques
Self-ligating braces selection
Joint mount
The Benefit palate skeletal anchoring system
The palatal arch, modelling procedures
Use of mandibular propulsion mechanics and intermaxillar elastic tractions
Managing compliant and non-compliant patients
Treatment of multidisciplinary cases
Finishing in the buccal technique
Contention in patients treated with lingual braces
MASTER SPEAKERS
The lecturers will include some of the most famous Italian experts of orthodontics with straight arch. Some of them are absolute authorities in this field, such as:
Dr. Renato Cocconi
Dr. Valerio Maccagnola
Dr. Nicola Preda
Dr. Fabrizio Lerda
Dr. Massimo Venezian
Dr. Andrea Compri
Dr. Alessandro Musci
Dr. Giulia Pilat
TEACHING SYSTEM
The
Master in Orthodontic Sciences with Straight Wire Technique
will include intensive, in-classroom lessons, where expert lecturers will alternate to explore all the features of the
straightwire
braces and their different operating phases. It will also include monthly lessons dealing with specific clinical topics and with the discussion of simple and complex clinical cases. Attendees will have the chance to present their clinical cases and discuss them with the lecturers once a month, to analyse the technical and critical issues of the different operating phases.
There will be technical in-depth modules on workshop procedures, useful when planning multidisciplinary cases, which explain the different stages of skeletal anchoring palate braces.
Crucial modules include the skeletal types, growth, and consequent interceptive treatment strategies.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
30/09/2025
Mandatory attendance:
80%
Minimum available spots:
20
Maximum available spots:
40
First instalment:
€
									3.022,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.500,00
Selection process notice
Website
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
How will the course be structured?
There will be 4 3-day full-immersion classroom lessons with different lecturers, and online monthly lessons with specific insights and discussion of clinical cases.
Will there be ward-based lessons?
No, however, clinical cases may be discussed through a case submission format.
What are the minimum attendance requirements?
The minimum attendance requirement is at least 70% of the lessons.
Classes start:
28/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							4.522,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Antonio Luigi Tiberio Gracco
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Sarah Mazzonetto
Phone:
049 8218098
Email:
odontoiatria.neuroscienze@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top