Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/ftp-pharmacoeconomics-and-personalized-treatment/

Skip to content
Post graduate programme
FTP
Pharmacoeconomics and personalized treatment
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
FTP - Pharmacoeconomics and personalized treatment
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
FTP - Pharmacoeconomics and personalized treatment
The
Course in Pharmacoeconomics and personalized treatment
prepares professionals in applying the most suitable cultural tools not to spend less, but rather to spend better.
The Post-Graduate Course, through a hands-on multidisciplinary approach, covers the essential aspects of
precision and value-added medicine
– risk-benefit and cost-effectiveness – within a context of pharmacotherapy resource management.
The Course is held online live by the Department of Medicine, in partnership with the Department of Economy and Business Sciences and the Department of Cardiothoracic-Vascular Sciences and Public Health of the University of Padua.
Educational content
The course units of the
Course in Pharmacoeconomics and personalized treatment
provides a hands-on, multidisciplinary approach that covers the basic aspects of Precision and value-added Medicine:
risk-benefit
cost-effectiveness
An effective and safe prescription of medicines (appropriate prescription) is a pillar of
personalized treatment
. It deals with clinical and economic validation of pharmacogenetic tests as personalized treatment tool. Although costly, these tests help reduce treatment personalization times required by the trial-and-error approach, hospitalization and cost of emergency interventions. Even innovative/personalized treatment is costly, however they are usually more effective and have less side effects than standard care over the long term.
The
faculty
comprises pharmacologists, doctors, hospital and local pharmacists, pharmaeconomists, epidemiologists, healthcare economists who work in Universities, pharmaceutical companies, hospitals, AIFA. Professors are involved in the two main training activities of the Course:
Clinical pharmacology
and
Pharmacoeconomics
.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Course in Pharmacoeconomics and personalized treatment
improves the skills of all pharmacy professionals in
assessing the risk-benefit and cost-effectiveness of pharmacological treatment
.
The course is addressed to students in biomedical or economic sciences, pharmacy professionals in different fields, and staff managers in hospitals or healthcare units.
The contents of the Course may be interesting for supra-enterprise institutions (i.e. Regions), which may promote the implementation of innovative treatment resource management solutions.
Course program
The
Course in Pharmacoeconomics and Personalized Treatment
includes an introduction and six sessions:
Introductory session
Contents (with short description)
Basics of clinical pharmacology
Polypharmacy, drug interactions, prescriptive appropriateness for classes of widely consumed drugs: glucororticoids, antibiotics; geriatric pharmacotherapy – the clinician’s perspective; pharmacogenetics
Gender medicine
Physiopathological bases, pharmacology, pharmacoepidemiology
Management and forecasting of resource consumption
The budget impact methodology; the clinical governance of medicines in the Veneto Region – from primary care to innovative medicines; evaluation of the sustainability of diagnostic and therapeutic pathways; case studies; real-world studies on patient reporting outcomes and strategies for patient engagement.
Pharmacoeconomics
Government of health spending and pharmaceutical spending: role of health economics and pharmacoeconomics; HTA and economic evaluation techniques of drugs: cost-effectiveness analysis and cost-utility analysis; economic evaluation in the process of reimbursement of drugs by the NHS
Nutraceuticals
Delivery systems to improve bioavailability; qualitative and regulatory aspects of the formulation; clinical trial
Equivalent medicines
Generics and biosimilars; regulatory evolution and pharmacoeconomic implications; pharmacokinetics of monoclonal antibodies
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Course according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
11/07/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
15
Maximum available spots:
30
First instalment:
€
									802,50
Second instalment:
€
									520,00
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
Will there be any preferential prerequisite during the selection process?
Yes, preferential prerequisites include: doctorate in pharmaceutical, medical, economic, healthcare economic disciplines; professional experience in hospitals and healthcare units.
Will there be any scholarships?
Yes, there’s a scholarship financed by the Order of Pharmacists of the Province of Vicenza to cover the entire registration fee.
The scholarship is intended for a young graduate born after 1 January 1994 whose work position is: not employed, not structured.
When will the lessons be held?
The introductory sessions will take place remotely (online) at the end of the two registration windows: 8 November 2024 at 6.00 pm and Thursday 19 December at 6.00 pm.
The teaching activity will take place remotely (online) on Friday afternoons (3.00pm-6.00pm) and Saturday mornings (9.00am-12.00pm), once a month, from January to July, on the following dates : 24/25 January, 21/22 February, 21/22 March, 11/12 April, 16/17 May, 20/21 June, 11/12 July.
What does the final exam consist of?
The final exam consists of a test with multiple choice questions based on the course lessons. The final exam will take place in person. The diploma will be awarded on the occasion of the exam.
Classes start:
13/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
12
Teaching method:
Distance learning
Total enrolment fee:
€
							1.322,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Andrea Cignarella
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Domenico Mallardo
Phone:
0498214375
Email:
didattica.dimed@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top