Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/glc-management-of-skin-lesions-and-difficult-wounds-wound-care/

Skip to content
First level university master
GLC
Management of Skin Lesions and Difficult Wounds (wound care)
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
GLC - Management of Skin Lesions and Difficult Wounds (wound care)
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
GLC - Management of Skin Lesions and Difficult Wounds (wound care)
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Management of Skin Lesions and Difficult Wounds (wound care)
was created because skin ulcers have an enormous impact on quality of life, on the social lives of patients and on healthcare costs. It is of fundamental importance to use a
shared language
, uniform and standardised, among the professionals in the same multi-speciality department and the various external professionals  with the objective of coming up with the most suitable and appropriate treatments for patients.
It is only by developing and creating a network that includes various diversified professional figures – with the concept of  “
people taking care of people
” –  that the patient can be treated in the most responsible way, with a positive impact on the effectiveness, proper care, and interventions focused on the well-being of the patient and lowering costs.
Therefore, the Master’s degree has the following academic objectives:
using the same technical and scientific language,
educating on technical innovations, new materials and devices,
acquiring a shared sense of responsibility in taking on a patient.
Educational content
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Management of Skin Lesions and Difficult Wounds (wound care)
allows for acquiring knowledge not just about theories but also in terms of understanding the important issues in the
correct diagnostic framing
of the patient affected by chronic cutaneous lesions and how to direct him/her toward the proper medical or surgical treatments.
It is to include live multi-disciplinary discussions, live surgery sessions, with Master’s students frequenting operating rooms and clinics for at least six hours per day, with skills that range from diagnostic framing to outpatient and specialist ward dressings, to surgery, to treatment at local facilities.
Independent judgement is, therefore, one of the primary objectives of the Master’s course, presenting dressing techniques applied by the various lecturers who will rotate throughout the operating rooms, specialised wards, and outpatient clinics throughout the year.
Course target and career opportunities
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Management of Skin Lesions and Difficult Wounds (wound care)
is meant for professionals, such as nurses, in order to make them experts in theory and practice in the treatment of ulcerative pathologies. Having completed the course, students can seek employment in the increasing number of public and private healthcare centres for the treatment of difficult wounds. The ultimate goal is to train professionals who are able to understand and follow the correct treatment pathway for patients with skin ulcers.
Course program
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Management of Skin Lesions and Difficult Wounds (wound care)
is to provide training in:
principles of anatomy and histology
biological basis of the healing process
treatment of healthy skin, children and the elderly
skin tears…
WBP- TIME
diagnostic framing of ulcers
treatment of vascular ulcers
medical and surgical treatment
skin grafts and flaps
burns
advanced dressings
negative pressure therapy
nursing clinic management
pressure ulcers
infected lesions
diabetic foot
paediatric ulcers
neoplastic and autoimmune ulcers
surgical wounds
complex trauma
tissue engineering and regenerative medicine
new technologies in managing patients affected by vascular ulcers
management of vascular ulcers, therapy in critical ischaemia lesions
elements of medical therapy in phlebostatic ulcers
elements of instrumental diagnostics
superficial and deep venous thrombosis: clinical and instrumental diagnosis
post-thrombotic syndrome
bandaging techniques
educating patients and family members
stripping of varicose veins
situation with the health districts
wound-care research and databases
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
30/09/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
40
First instalment:
€
									1.625,00
Second instalment:
€
									1.000,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
What days does the Master’s take place?
The Master’s takes place over nine months in monthly cycles. A cycle lasts one week per month, from Monday to Friday, from 8:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. – 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. for a total of 40 hours per week. Each cycle will include introductory lessons held in the classroom as well as live lessons in the surgical ward. During the weeks the Master’s course is held, participants will visit hospital wards following their tutor in diagnosing and treating patients affected by cutaneous ulcers.
The academic portion of the Master’s will include lessons, laboratories, practice sessions, seminars, expert accounts, and apprenticeships, with this experience all summed up in the final project (thesis), which will be discussed during the final exam.
Will there be exams?
Yes, in addition to the final exam, there will be learning checks, typically at the end of each module.
Will there be internships or apprenticeships?
There are to be 200 hours of practical training at the University of Padua Hospital and in the departments that have an agreement with the University of Padua. It is not possible to carry out the internship in centres that don’t have a special agreement with the University of Padua for Master’s course participants.
Are any scholarships offered?
No, there are no scholarships offered.
What types of research activities are included in the course?
There will be some research activities in the university institutions taking part and in collaboration with the main industries involved in skin-ulcer therapy to learn about the biological principles of the main types of advanced dressings and medical devices currently in use for the treatment of skin ulcers (i.e., negative pressure therapy). Research activities will include attending seminars, visiting laboratories, and possibly writing theses papers.
Classes start:
11/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.625,00
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Vincenzo Vindigni
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Licia Prosdocimi
Email:
chirplastica.neuroscienze@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top