Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/grc-clinical-risk-management/

Skip to content
Second level university master
GRC
Clinical risk management
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
GRC - Clinical risk management
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
GRC - Clinical risk management
The Second-level short specialisation degree in Clinical Risk Management trains professionals in healthcare in theoretical/practical aspects with the aim of acquiring the following skills:
identifying adverse events in the healthcare system (and related areas) and risk factors;
using appropriate detection systems;
preventing, managing adverse events and their consequences;
ability to optimise the economic resources dedicated to clinical risk management;
ability to know how to promote organisational communication and integration among the various professional figures.
Educational content
The Second-level short specialisation degree in Clinical Risk Management helps train professionals in:
detecting, analysing, and interpreting errors and their consequences;
preventing and managing adverse events and their consequences;
creation and evaluation of clinical-risk management plans in one’s own work unit or in a department.
Course target and career opportunities
The Second-level short specialisation degree in Clinical Risk Management provides theoretical and practical training for professionals who will have the specific skills of a
clinical risk manager
.
They will be able to find work:
as clinical-risk managers in operational units and health care companies;
in the legal management of claims and consequences of adverse events;
in the economic assessment of various situations related to clinical risk.
Course program
The Second-level short specialisation degree in Clinical Risk Management provides training in:
Patient Safety
Introduction to patient safety
Clinical risks and training
Quality and business processes
Errors in medicine
The psychological dimension of errors
Clinical- risk management: the national reference framework
Clinical risk and devices
Patient safety and infections
Clinical-risk management in healthcare
Methods and tools in clinical-risk management
Measuring clinical risk
Clinical risk and clinical applications
Health professions and how to integrate clinical risk
How to write a scientific article on clinical risk
Involving patients
Leadership
Managing the leadership system and team concept
Economic and legal aspects of patient safety
Clinical risk and responsibility
Economics and managing clinical risk
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Second-level short specialisation degree according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
29/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
10
Maximum available spots:
30
First instalment:
€
									1.625,00
Second instalment:
€
									1.000,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
How are the courses organised?
The Second-level short specialisation degree takes place over a period of twelve months and attendance is compulsory.
The course includes
in-person lessons
(lectures, seminars) and a potential internship during which the student can go further in-depth on specific topics of interest in terms of patient safety, leadership, and quality improvement.
The dates of classroom lectures and seminars will be given to students on a quarterly basis. The internship period will be agreed upon individually with the student.
The student must choose an
advisor
(from among the various lecturers) to work with throughout the Second-level short specialisation degree. The advisor will also oversee the student’s thesis, which will be part of the final assessment.
Is there a specific attendance percentage required?
Attendance is compulsory for at least 70% of the total number of course hours.
Is there to be a final exam?
The final consists of project work.
Classes start:
06/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.625,00
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Vladimiro Vida
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Vladimiro Vida
Phone:
0498212427
Email:
vladimiro.vida@unipd.it
Alternative contact
Contact Person:
Vice Direttore - Prof.ssa Piera Poletti
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top