Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/idee-teaching-law-and-economics/

Skip to content
Second level university master
IDeE
Teaching Law and Economics
Teaching methodologies and lifelong learning in methodologically, legally and economically oriented high school
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
IDeE - Teaching Law and Economics
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
IDeE - Teaching Law and Economics
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Teaching Law and Economics
prepares in-service teachers, graduates and professionals for more effective teaching in upper secondary schools.
The Second-level Short Specialisation Degree is developed taking into account the need for students to acquire the training credits necessary for the qualification to teach legal-economic disciplines (class 046) in upper secondary school for graduates in Law and related disciplines.
Each course allows you to obtain 6 credits. The training course delves into teaching methodologies and ongoing training, to respond to the recent legislative reforms of teaching in legal and economic subjects in high schools.
The Second-level Short Specialisation Degree can be used individually, upon registration, for the refresher needs of in-service teachers.
For information on the Second-level Short Specialisation Degree, a meeting via Zoom is scheduled every week with the Deputy Director of the Master, Prof. Pomini, to be requested at no. 337 247 6202.
The meetings are scheduled every Monday, from 6.00 pm to 7.00 pm starting from 8 July 2024 until the pre-registration deadline (8 October 2024)
Learning content
The
Master in Teaching Law and Economics
is divided into 8 single post-graduate courses, each one providing the necessary credits to qualify for teaching the subject. Among the profiles trained by the Master, there are the innovative inter-disciplinary figures of
Social Studies
and
Financial Studies
.
The Master includes also an internship or a project work.
Recipients and career opportunities
The
Master in Teaching Law and Economics
is addressed to graduates with a Master’s Degree in Law, Economy or Political Sciences, or any other legal-economic field, looking to obtain subject certification A-46 (Legal-economic subjects), in order to teach in high schools, also by preparing students for the public exam and to teach as substitute teachers.
The course grants the credits required for this purpose, which are usually not provided by a regular university course. The Master is also addressed to working teachers of any subject, who wish to get a refresher course
on educational and training methods for high schools
, or integrate their lifelong training with legal and economic skills.
Lastly, the Master is addressed also to field professionals, as lifelong training and refresher course.
Course program
The
Master in Teaching Law and Economics
is divided into the following 9 courses, each one providing 6 CFU:
Teaching Political Economy – SSD SECS-P/01
Teaching Economic Politics – SSD SECS-P/02
Teaching Social Studies – SSD IUS/09
Methodology and Technology of Teaching Law – SSD IUS/09
Teaching Financial Education – SSD SECS-P/02
Teaching Economic History and Statistics 1 – SSD S/03
Teaching Economic History and Statistics 2 – SSD S/03
Teaching Economic and Business Education 1 – SSD SECS-P/07
Teaching Economic and Business Education 2 – SSD SECS-P/07
Open badge
The Second-level Short Specialisation Degree’s diploma is issued alongside an
open badge
(a digital certification on blockchain platform of the disciplinary knowledge, soft skills and technical competencies acquired) by the University of Padua. The Master’s title also grants additional scores in substitute teaching rankings.
Example of the Master’s open badge on this page
https://bestr.it/badge/show/2076
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Single course
Didactics of Political Economy
Epistemology of Political Economy and Main Topics of Microeconomics.
Didactics of Economic Policy
Revival and updating of Keynesian theory in the current geopolitical context.
Didactics of Civic Education
The principles of the Constitution and their didactic usability. Elements of School Legislation.
Methodology and Technology of Legal Education
Elements of perfomatic legal didactics: from case to debate.
Didactics of financial education
Basic Elements of Financial Education: From Savings to the Stock Market.
Didactics of History and Economic Statistics I
Quantitative elements of economic history and economic geography.
Didactics of History and Economic Statistics II
Elements of descriptive statistics and case studies.
Didactics of Economics and Business Education I
Insights into public economics.
Didattica dell’educazione economica e aziendale II
The welfare state and its economic and financial implications.
Information
Thematic area:
Finance, Law and International relations
End of classes:
30/09/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
10
Maximum available spots:
50
First instalment:
€
									1.625,00
Second instalment:
€
									1.000,00
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
How long does the Master last and how will it be structured?
The Master will be held entirely online, it lasts one year and provides 60 CFU. It is divided into 9 courses lasting 24-36 hours each. Any training activity completed at post-graduate level in the Master’s sectors will be recognized up to 20 CFU, as well as any documented professional experience, up to 12 CFU. Such recognitions may be cumulated up to 20 CFU for each career path.
Does the Master provide the CFU required to teach Law and Economics in high schools?
The Master provides the training credits that graduates in Law or similar disciplines usually lack, which are mandatory to teach A46 subjects, Legal-Economic Subjects.
Then, since 2024, to access the teaching profession, and annual training course is required to be eligible for teaching competitions. By acquiring all training credits, students will be qualified to teach as substitute teachers.
How will the Master be structured?
It will be held online in synchronous mode. The Master is also a refresher platform for teachers and professionals in the legal and economic discipline field. Lessons will be held on Friday afternoon and Saturday morning.
The minimum attendance requirement is at least 70% of the lessons.
Will there be any forms of facilitations?
Unfortunately, there will be no forms of facilitation, such as scholarships.
Fruili Venezia Giulia Region grants non-refundable aid for training fees sustained in the first three year of professional activity, in individual, company or associated form.
Classes start:
30/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Online
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
Distance learning
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.625,00
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Paolo Moro
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
UniSMART Fondazione Università di Padova
Phone:
335 1727173
Email:
formazione@unismart.it
Alternative contact
Contact Person:
Prof. Mario Pomini - Vicedirettore
Phone:
0498273363
Email:
mario.pomini@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top