Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/idp-digital-implantology/

Skip to content
Second level university master
IDP
Digital implantology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
IDP - Digital implantology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
IDP - Digital implantology
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree in Digital implantology
is a Second Level Short Specialisation Degree that prepares Dentistry and Dental Prosthetics graduates in deepening their knowledge on digital implant dentistry.
The one-year theoretical and practical course thoroughly explores the digital workflow: from virtual planning to surgery and implant prosthetics finalization.
The purpose of the Master’s Course is to provide specific competencies in digital dentistry.
Educational content
The course units of the
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Digital implantology
include
remote lessons
with leading experts of the sector, who will describe techniques, procedures, advice and clinical cases with the use of digital systems.
During
in-person sessions
, hands-on and live surgery practice will be carried out. Attendees can try out the potential of the digital system first-hand.
The course also includes the participation to
Italian conferences
on relevant topics and any events organized within the Master.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree in Digital implantology
is addressed to
Dentistry and Dental Prosthetics
graduates who wish to deepen their competencies in the digital implant dentistry sector, by acquiring specific skills of digital dentistry. Career opportunities will help professionals present themselves on the market as specialists in this new sector in private or public structures, by introducing the digital aspect in the day-to-day workflow.
With this preparation, attendees will
optimize and speed up the treatment processes
they are involved in, by promoting communication between the different stakeholders of the dental team, and will be able to participate as lecturers in national and international conferences.
Course program
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Digital implantology
provides training on:
Digital workflow presentation with the different dental implant systems
Managing the most modern digital flows by leading dental implant companies: the new workflows help combine the diagnostic, surgical and prosthetic part in a highly performing way.
Data and photo collection for diagnosis, dental implant-prosthetics planning and regenerative planning
Taking pictures useful to the treatment plan and case documentation.
Planning implants, prosthetics and the most suitable regenerative treatments in the best way possible.
Intra-oral scanning, 3D x-rays and integration
Using intra-oral scanners, benefits and advantages; scanning protocols and times.
Using 3D x-rays, integrating it and coupling it with intra-oral scan files.
Prosthetics and surgical planning
Collecting data (photos, CBCT, intra-oral prints) and using them for surgical-prosthetic planning.
Assessing any possible regenerative needs or treatment alternatives to minimize invasiveness without affecting the outcome.
Template creation (design and print)
Managing the different template creation software (including freeware) for dental implant positioning, both tooth- and mucosa-supported for edentulous dental arches.
Knowing how to recognizing the ideal characteristics of a template and how to create it with 3D printers.
Immediate temporary design
Planning the delivery of an immediate provisional tooth, by choosing both the implant and the abutment in advance, based on the hard and soft tissue available.
Preparing a digital flow to detect only the position of the scan bodies at the end of the surgery, in order to have a milled or printed provisional tooth in just a few hours.
Surgery on model (in-person)
Practising prosthetic and dental implant planning on dedicated software.
Placing the dental implants on artificial jaws.
Model scan with guided implant positioning (in-person)
Practising the use of the most-advanced intra-oral scanners to detect the position of positioned implants.
Creating a temporary prosthetic or using scans for a permanent prosthetics.
Assessing planning vs reality accuracy
Assessing the accuracy and the margin of error of computer-guided implant dentistry and the prosthetics obtained from a digital print.
Permanent prosthetic design
Exploring the new all-digital options for prosthetic design and integrating information and workshops.
Materials and processing for prosthetics 3.0
Familiarizing with and treating new materials and the processing options for latest-generation prosthetic rehabilitation. How to use milling centres in the best way possible.
FACULTY
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Digital Implant Dentistry
will involve the participation of leading national and international lecturers:
dott. Alessandro Agnini
dott. Andrea Agnini
dott. Alberto Maria Albiero
dott. Marco Bacilieri
prof. Sergio Bortolini
prof. Eriberto Bressan
dott. Tommaso Cantoni
dott. Raffaele Cavalcanti
dott. Alvise Cenzi
dott. Enrico Corrà
dott. Giacomo Dallari
dott.ssa Ioana Datcu
dott. Luca De Stavola
dott. Giacomo Fabbri
dott. Andrea Fincato
dott. Alessio Franchina
dott. Stefano Gelli
dott. Stefano Gori
dott. Riccardo Guazzo
dott. Massimo Ivani
dott. Emilio Margutti
dott. Roberto Molinari
dott. Luca Mora
dott. Andrea Nicali
prof. Francesco Pera
dott. Sergio Piano
dott. Federico Rivara
dott. Luca Sbricoli
dott. Massimilano Urso
dott. Piero Venezia
dott. Nicola Zucchini
Moreover, it is supported by leading international dental implant companies.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
30/09/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
15
Maximum available spots:
40
First instalment:
€
									2.722,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.800,00
Selection process notice
Website
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
How will the teaching be organized?
The Second-level Short Specialisation Degree comprises online lessons and in-person sessions.
Online lessons are organized every 3 weeks through a dedicated platform (e.g. Zoom).
In-person lessons and hands-on practice sessions are held at the end of the first semester (February 2025) and at the end of the second semester (September 2025) and will include 5 in-person days, from Monday to Friday, with hands-on tests.
Will there be a stage/traineeship?
No, there will be no additional activities to complete.
Will there be any form of facilitation?
Yes, there are 2 study prizes equal to €2,500 each, which will be awarded to 2 students who will prove themselves worthy through attendance and participation.
Is there a maximum absence threshold?
Yes, there is a mandatory 70% attendance.
What are the applicants selection criteria?
Resumes, graduate dissertation, publications and any other title deemed useful by the applicants will be evaluated
Classes start:
23/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
Distance learning
Total enrolment fee:
€
							4.522,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Eriberto Bressan
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Sarah Mazzonetto
Phone:
0498218098
Email:
odontoiatria.neuroscienze@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top