Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/ifc-family-or-community-nurse/

Skip to content
First level university master
IFC
Family or Community Nurse
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
IFC - Family or Community Nurse
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
IFC - Family or Community Nurse
The
Master in Family or Community Nurse
provides the necessary competences to familiarize with and understand the type and function of local social-healthcare services, and the social-care needs of single patients and community.
The course explores topics such as maladaptive lifestyles, social-care fragility conditions, providing the tools for
healthcare prevention
, by promoting a healthy lifestyle and activating multi-professional support networks.
Purposes of the Master include:
Understanding promotion and empowerment methods to support health, starting from the social-care needs of single people and the community;
Interacting with other healthcare professionals to define the best healthcare paths, document activities and outcomes, and become a staple for the community;
Developing managerial and coordination competences for care paths, also through digital and remote medicine services.
Learning content
The
Master in Family or Community Nurse
provides the right competences to analyse family and community contexts, promote health, prevent diseases, and proactively take over people with fragilities, diseases and long-term disabilities.
With 1500 hours of training (divided between lectures, online lessons, seminars, internship and project work), this Master trains nurses capable of
empowering people, families and the community
, through a proactive support to fragility, and the activation of services and social resources, in relation to personal and community needs, also through strategies to expand the support offer provided by existing services.
Recipients and career opportunities
The Master in Family or Community Nurse is addressed to nurses, and provides professionals with suitable competences to act as a point of reference and leadership in local communities.
The course provides specialized knowledge in health prevention and promotion, focused on taking over patients, including those with minimal and medium clinical-care complexity, characterized by the presence of one or more non-complex chronic diseases, fragility conditions, or initial disability with functional autonomy.
After this course, professionals can
promote multiprofessional integration and initiative healthcare
, by focusing on the assisted person and their family, consistently with the new healthcare organizational model. Lastly, students are trained on identifying the characteristics, needs and level of care and in providing their contribution for an IT system and service appropriate to the operations and multiprofessional.
Course program
The
Master in Family or Community Nurse
provides courses divided into three thematic areas:
FAMILY OR COMMUNITY NURSING ORGANIZATIONAL AND PROFESSIONAL MODEL
Organization and evolution in primary care systems
Culture of self-care in different ethnic and social groups
Role of the family in care processes
Layering of needs in the social and health-related population dimension based on complexity
The national and regional plan for chronic disease, mission 6 of the PNRR
Models and standards to develop a local care system
Electronic health record, corporate applications and implications on nursing
PROGRESSES IN CARE PATHS AND RESULT MONITORING
Management of care paths in the interprofessional network
Objective clinical examination
Alteration situations that limit motor, social, cognitive, affective and relational activities, and significantly impact the quality of life
Safely managing long-term treatments
Therapeutic recognition and reconciliation
Seminars on obesity/food disorders, physical activity and workouts in senior citizens with home physical therapy
Evaluation of transition paths and continuing care
Application of good clinical practices in home care interventions (TPN, dysphagia, home ventilation, advanced medications)
MULTIPROFESSIONAL TEAMS FOR COMPLEX NEEDS
Advanced health and empowerment education methods
Assessment and strategies to support therapeutic adherence
Family assessment approaches and nurse interviews with the family
Organizing a home visit, assessing the environment, and setting up the home care unit
Multiprofessional integration methods
Use of organizational integration instruments
Use of interprofessional instruments (SVAMA, PAI).
Managing coordination and decision-making meetings, and interprofessional debriefing on cases
Coaching, feedback and consultancy techniques.
TEACHING SYSTEM
The
Master in Family or Community Nurse
includes 1500 hours of training (60 CFU), organized in one or two days a week (up to 10 academic hours).
The course will be held in person, usually between mid-November and July. There will be exams during the course.
Internships will be completed in partner units. It may be completed at the student’s local Healthcare Unit, if it is one of the partner institutions, and if it is available to welcome the intern. At the end of the internship, students will complete a report, which will be part of the final assessment.
At the end of the Master, there will be a final exam. The exam – which consists in the presentation and discussion of a project work, referred to a case and to care paths – will be evaluated also according to the student’s career.
PARTNER ASSOCIATIONS
The
Master in Family or Community Nurse
can count on the following partnerships:
Ulss 6 Euganea for internships and classes
Ulss 5 Polesana for internships
Ulss 2 Marca Trevigiana for internships
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this First-level short specialisation degree according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
20
Maximum available spots:
40
First instalment:
€
									1.722,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.000,00
Selection process notice
Website
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
How will the selection take place?
The possible entrance test will be held on the morning of October 11th in the Aula Morgagni, via Giustiniani 2 (PD).
The admission test will be carried out only if the applicants exceed the maximum number of students that may enrol. In such case, selection will take place based on a merit list, given by the sum of the score obtained by the applicant in the written exam, and an assessment of their titles.
When pre-enrolling, each applicant must attach their resume and fill out a ‘summary’ sheet, declaring all their titles. If the number of students enrolled is equal to or lower than the maximum spots available, no selection is carried out, and all applicants are admitted.
What are the Master's enrolment requirements?
The minimum requirements to access the Master are a Bachelor’s Degree in healthcare, nursing, or ob-gyn professions (L/SNT1), or, alternative, a regional school diploma plus the high school diploma/secondary school state exam, or equivalent titles.
Is attendance mandatory?
Attendance of at least 70% of the total lessons (and of each module) is mandatory, and of 100% of the internship. Once the availability of local units has been assessed, internship dates and times may be agreed directly with the coordinator during the internship. Lessons will be held at the Hospital Riuniti Padova Sud, Via Albere no. 30, Monselice (PD), in the two classrooms of the Nursing Degree.
How many hours of internship are required and when?
The internship includes 250 hours of internship, divided into two sections, to be done in two units or services, around April-August 2025.
Will any previous credits be recognized?
Yes, any training and post-graduate activity completed before the Master will be recognized, as long as they are consistent with the Master’s characteristics and suitably documented. Specifically, up to 20 CFU for each previous experience, certified at academic or equivalent level, of any one of the Master’s module, and acquired in other courses, apart from the minimum standard degree required, will be recognized.
Classes start:
03/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Monselice (Padua)
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.722,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Matteo Danielis
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Marta Salimbeni
Phone:
049 8275400
Email:
master.ifc@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top