Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/ilia-instrumental-and-lab-tests-for-arthropathies/

Skip to content
Post graduate programme
ILIA
Instrumental and Lab Tests for Arthropathies
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
ILIA - Instrumental and Lab Tests for Arthropathies
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
ILIA - Instrumental and Lab Tests for Arthropathies
The Course joins the second extraordinary pre-enrolment term from the 4th to the 25th November 2024, 12.30 pm.
The
Course in Instrumental and Lab Tests for Arthropathies
prepares rheumatologists, physiatrists, orthopaedics, general surgeons, sports doctors and radiologists, by exploring the instrumental/clinical framework for rheumatic diseases.
The purpose of the Course is to train and update medical professionals interested in osteoarticular diseases.
Particular reference is given to diagnostic testing and surgical assessment, involving arthrocentesis, synovial biopsy with histological assessment, and synovial liquid analysis.
Educational content
The
Course in Instrumental and Lab Tests for Arthropathies
entails the acquisition of crosscutting competences in the clinical/diagnostic framing of patient suffering from rheumatic diseases with joint involvement.
The Course provides specific skills in identifying the physiopathological path for joint disease, in identifying and assessing early clinical cases of the disease, in using instrumental diagnostics, in multi-disciplinary sharing for diseases that may require a multi-specialized intervention, especially in the case of multi-factor diseases.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Course in Instrumental and Lab Tests for Arthropathies
prepares rheumatologists, physiatrists, orthopaedics, general surgeons, sports doctors and radiologists.
The course can be useful to introduce doctors with a different background to the knowledge of tests and manoeuvres that can refine the diagnostic definition of inflammatory forms in the early stages of the disease and in degenerative ones.
Trained professionals may be employed in clinics, hospitals and/or universities.
Course program
The
Course in Instrumental and Lab Tests for Arthropathies
provides training on:
Pathological anatomy
: anatomy of joint structures and joint-related pathological processes.
Image diagnostics
: overview of the instrumental exams useful for a diagnostic framing of joint diseases.
Radiography
: assessment of joint osseous structure, defining of the characteristics and distribution of joint inflammatory/degenerative disease onsets, on the cartilaginous/osseous tissue.
Computed axial tomography (CAT)
: high-resolution assessment of the bone, and cross-sectional assessment of osseous structure images; technical demonstrations and illustration of pathological frameworks, indications to carry out guided CAT for arthrocentesis and infiltrations in specific area.
Nuclear magnetic resonance
: assessment of early-onset diseases and inflammatory damage, study of soft tissue, assessment of joint and peri-joint structure images in every plane and axis.
This is a highly sensitive technique, useful to study areas that are hard to frame.
Ultrasound
: assessment of soft joint and peri-joint tissues and early rheumatic disease alteration, essential for a surgical/invasive approach in infiltration and arthrocentesis manoeuvres, especially in small joint and peritendinitis areas.
Osseous densitometry
: assessment of osseous involvement, both for the inflammatory aspect and demineralization, and differential diagnosis frameworks.
Pathological basis for treatment identification
: synovial joint biopsy and liquid biopsy (synovial liquid examination).
Admission and teaching mode
The
Course in Instrumental and Lab Tests for Arthropathies
will be held in different modes. First, through
in-person theoretical lessons
on fundamentals of anatomy, rheumatic pathology, instrumental diagnostics.
Second, through a
clinical traineeship
on patients and cadavers; and third, through a
hands-on lab practice
focused in particular on synovial liquid analysis. During the course, attendance periods in the clinic and lab structures will be held.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Course according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
27/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
12
First instalment:
€
									722,50
Second instalment:
€
									400,00
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
How will the course be structured?
The course includes in-person lessons held at the Rheumatology Unit classroom of the Padua University Hospital.
Lessons will be held on Friday afternoon, twice a month.
There will also be a hands-on traineeship on patients, and a lab section to be defined at the beginning of the Course.
What does the lab portion include?
The lab portion includes being able to analyse a sample of synovial liquid and interpret its results.
What does the clinic portion include?
It consists in arthrocentesis and eco-guided infiltration manoeuvres, useful in the medical practice.
Classes start:
16/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
13
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							1.122,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Roberta Ramonda
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Domenico Mallardo
Phone:
049 8214375
Email:
didattica.dimed@unipd.it
Alternative contact
Contact Person:
Vice Director: Dr. Francesca Oliviero
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top