Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/lacao-speech-therapy-in-surgery-ent-audiology-and-orthodontic-areas/

Skip to content
First level university master
LACAO
Speech therapy in surgery, ENT, Audiology and Orthodontic Areas
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
LACAO - Speech therapy in surgery, ENT, Audiology and Orthodontic Areas
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
LACAO - Speech therapy in surgery, ENT, Audiology and Orthodontic Areas
The Master joins the second extraordinary pre-enrolment term from the 4th to the 25th November 2024, 12.30 pm.
The
Master in Speech Therapy for the Surgical, Audiological, ENT. and Orthodontics Areas
provides speech therapists with knowledge and skills concerning the prevention, evaluation and takeover of patients with ENT-related pathologies.
From a clinical standpoint , it explores speech therapy issues from a phonetics/ENT standpoint, at greater level than the Bachelor’s Degree, providing
career opportunities in private, partnered public and public institutions.
Professionals will acquire the latest skills in speech therapy take-over, concerning ENT pathologies. The course is in line with the protocols and orientations found in international literature, and help professionals to be better integrated also in the European and international context.
Educational content
The
Master in Speech Therapy for the Surgical, Audiological, ENT. and Orthodontics Areas
explores hearing impairments and disabilities of the entire life cycle, rehabilitated with cochlear implants or hearing aids; rehabilitation of people with
voice disorders
, with a focus on professional and artistic voice aspects; prevention and treatment of larynx dysfunctions and/or surgery outcomes of the
vocal tract
, focusing on how to manage larynx prosthetics and tubes, and on caregiver consultancy. It also covers the assessment and speech therapy intervention, concerning craniofacial malformations, malocclusions, and miofunctional oral disorders.
The Master includes lessons, workshops, internship, project work, individual study and a final exam. Internships are organized with the students, in suitable premises.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Master in Speech Therapy for the Surgical, Audiological, ENT. and Orthodontics Areas
provides a training opportunity and a new occupational perspective to graduates with a Bachelor’s Degree in Speech Therapy, according to the provisions of Article 16(7) of the Work Agreement of 23 February 2018.
Career opportunities include the private, public partnered, and public sectors. Professionals can spend their speciality training in the ENT field, by acquiring competences in line with the National Healthcare System, private healthcare and private practice’s needs.
The course is in line with the protocols and orientations found in international literature, and helps
professionals to be better integrated
also in the European and international context.
Course program
The
Master in Speech Therapy for the Surgical, Audiological, ENT. and Orthodontics Areas
provides training on the following topics:
MANAGING A MULTIDISCIPLINARY ENT TEAM
Multidisciplinarity in the ENT field
SPEECH THERAPISTS TODAY: CORE RESUME, CORE COMPETENCES AND ESTABLISHMENT OF THE REGISTER
History and news of the profession
LEGAL MEDICINE
Legal medicine elements, particularly interesting for speech therapists in the ENT field
PUBLIC LAW AND CORPORATE ORGANIZATION
Hospital organization in Italy
Historical-regulatory evolution of primary care organization
Notions of other healthcare service organizational models worldwide
Essential care levels
Healthcare programming and planning
Principles of healthcare economy
Elements of public law
OCCUPATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY AND MEDICINE
Main psychological theories on organizations and on motivation within the occupational psychology field
Working in teams
Occupational medicine elements useful in the ENT context
TEACHING for SPEECH THERAPY TUTORING
Definition of tutor and tutoring
Innovative teaching methods
INTEGRATED ENDOSCOPISTS AND SPEECH THERAPIST DIAGNOSIS
Principles of integration of medical and speech therapy competences during the patient’s endoscopic diagnosis
BIBLIOGRAPHIC RESEARCH IN THE ENT FIELD
Evidence-based medicine and research methodology
Bibliographic sources: biomedical databases and ENT-related journals
Types of ENT publications
Systemic reviews/Metanalysis/Guidelines
STATISTICS
Descriptive statistics and inferential statistics after the Bachelor’s Degree
Category-based: chi-squared test.
CLINICAL PEDAGOGY
Learning ability
The main learning ability and the most popular learning methods
CLINICAL CARE PATHS
Managing waiting lists and outcome assessment in the clinical process of an ENT unit
Healthcare verification and evaluation methods and tools (indicators)
TECHNOLOGY AND SPEECH THERAPY
Assistive technology referred to speech therapist and the professions working with them
IT aids and their applications during evaluation
PATIENTS WITH HEARING ISSUES: REHABILITATION OF COMPLEX CASES
Complex audiology cases from a medical and speech therapy rehabilitation standpoint
ARTISTIC VOCOLOGY
Artistic vocology from a medical and speech therapy rehabilitation standpoint
ENT ONCOLOGY: SURGERY AND SPEECH THERAPY REHABILITATION
Characteristics of speech therapy take-over in patients with cancer in the head-neck area, with focus on recovery of the phonics and deglutition functions
DEGLUTITION DISORDERS
Provides knowledge and competences for appropriate intervention, based on the patient’s age and type, and the dysphagia severity, according to the EBM
CRANIOFACIAL MALFORMATIONS: MULTIDISCIPLINARY TAKE-OVER
Audiological, phonics, orthodontics and rehabilitation aspects in the main craniofacial malformations and syndromes
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/07/2026
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
15
Maximum available spots:
25
First instalment:
€
									1.672,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.006,50
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
How will the course be structured?
Once a month, on Friday (full day) and Saturday morning, or, if necessary, on Thursday afternoon and Friday (full day). During the two-year course, there will be three-four intensive weeks (Monday-Friday).
Where will the internship take place?
Part of the internship will consist of analysing clinical cases in the classroom, and another part will be carried out in the ENT Units, identified as agreed with the Master’s Direction.
Is the Master in person? Where will the lessons be held?
Yes, lessons will be held in person only, in the classrooms of the University Hospital of Padua, Via Giustiniani no.2.
Will there be a final dissertation?
The final oral exam will consist of the presentation/discussion of a final project.
Classes start:
28/11/2024
Duration:
Two-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.679,00
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Patrizia Trevisi
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Mariagrazia Schiesaro
Phone:
049 8212037/1645
Email:
mariagrazia.schiesaro@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top