Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/linfo-lymphology/

Skip to content
First level university master
LINFO
Lymphology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
LINFO - Lymphology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
LINFO - Lymphology
Master not activated during a.y. 2025/2026.
The
Master in Lymphology
prepares physicians and physical therapists with specialised training, in lymphology and lymphatic rehabilitation, according to a differentiated pathway based on specific professional skills.
The course will provide specialised skills in the diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of lymphoedema for physicians and, for physical therapists, in terms of recovery, re-education, and rehabilitation.
The Master’s course teaches students to use
clinical reasoning
in diagnosing lymphoedema, preventing secondary damage, and techniques for complex decongestive therapy as per EBM guidelines, adapted to different clinical situations
Educational content
The
Master in Lymphology
for physical therapists leads to professionals specialised in recovery, re-education, and rehabilitation of lymphoedema, while the course for physicians allows them to be specialised in the diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of lymphoedema.
Based on new knowledge in physiopathology and the introduction of combinations of
effective therapeutic strategies
, in terms of reducing oedema and improving quality of life, students acquire professional skills as per evidence-based medicine (EBM) and have the opportunity to understand the effectiveness of treatments with rigorous measurement and evaluation scales.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Master in Lymphology
is meant for physicians and physical therapists, with two distinct courses based on specific professional skills.
A
physical therapist
with a Master’s degree in Lymphology becomes a specialised professional expert in the recovery, re-education, and rehabilitation of lymphoedema. He/she can use the advanced skills acquired in the Master’s programme in physical therapy practices (as a freelancer) or in rehabilitation units of the National Health System (NHS). For NHS professionals, the Master’s degree in Lymphology is a requirement to be hired for positions as a specialist professional regulated by Law no. 43/2006 and implemented by CCLN 2016-2018.
A
physician
with a Master’s degree in Lymphology becomes a specialised professional expert in the diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of lymphoedema. He/she can use the advanced skills acquired in the Master’s programme in a freelance capacity or in rehabilitation units of the National Health System (NHS). The Master’s degree in Lymphology can be used for career advancement in the national healthcare system.
Course program
The
Master’s degree in Lymphology
provides training in
Anatomy of the Lymphatic System
: embryology, histology, micro/macroanatomy, functional and topographic anatomy.
Physiology of the Lymphatic System
: fluid balance in extracellular matrix; histology and physiology of the lymphatic system, lymph composition and flow to the venous system.
Elements of Medical Genetics
: basics, mutations in syndromic and non-syndromic lymphoedema; clinical signs, diagnostic algorithms.
Elements of Molecular Biology
: molecular mechanisms of biological tissue development (cells, extracellular matrix, microcirculation, and lymphatic network); mechanotransduction.
Elements of Biophysics
: mechanical and thermodynamic laws governing physiological and pathophysiological phenomena; mechanical homeostasis, fluid mechanics; resistance of materials.
Internal Medicine
: pathologies of large systems and development of lymphoedema.
Physiopathology of the Lymphatic System
: mechanisms determining excess fluid and macromolecules in the extracellular matrix and lymphatic drainage deficit; pathophysiology of lymphoedema and lipoedema and the cardiovascular system.
Secondary Lymphoedema in Cancer Patients
: physiopathology, incidence, risk and prevention, diagnosis, treatment, guidelines.
General, Visceral and Breast surgery
: post-surgical lymphoedema; chronic oedema in vascular patients; breast cancer surgery and breast reconstruction.
Rehabilitation Part 1
– Primary and secondary lymphoedema, lipoedema: clinical signs, evaluation and diagnosis, treatment principles and therapeutic education. Elastic containment mechanisms, manual drainage with lymphofluoroscopic guidance. Rehabilitation after breast surgery. In addition, for physical therapists: manual drainage and bandaging workshops using various components.
Research Methodology
: statistical basics; experimental and qualitative research; evidence-based practice; research projects.
Legal Medicine and Bioethics
: medical, legal, deontological, and ethical aspects; clinical risk; level of disability.
Nuclear Medicine (Lymphoscintigraphy
): fundamentals, diagnostic interpretation; physical principles, properties of radioisotopes and gamma chambers.
Lymphatic Surgery – Surgical Options
: conceptual bases and evidence. Outcome assessment, post-surgical care.
Skin Disorders in Patients with Lymphoedema
: skin care, skin ulcers, hyperkeratosis, mycosis and other skin infections related to lymphangitis/dermo hypodermatitis.
Nutrition in Lymphoedema and Lipoedema
: interactions between lymphoedema and food intake, NaCL, carbohydrates, long-chain fatty acids; nutrition as a therapeutic strategy.
Clinical Psychology:
psychological, relational and communicative dimensions; team support.
Pharmacology.
Healthcare organisation
: infrastructures, material and human resources, organisation in the intensive and long-term management of lymphoedema.
Rehabilitation Part 2
– Therapeutic strategies and physical treatment of lymphoedema. Primary lymphoedema in paediatric age. Management of skin ulcers. In addition, for physicians: tool assessment workshops (ultrasound, elastometry, lymphofluoroscopy).
FACULTY AND ACADEMIC PROGRAMME
The table below shows the teaching structure of the Master’s programme.
The table also shows:
The programme broken down by course year;
Teachings and related modules;
The relationships lecturers have to the  various structures;
The number of hours required for Physical Therapists and Doctors;
The overall educational programme as shown in student commitment hours;
Courses on basic subjects highlighted in yellow;
Laboratory teaching activities highlighted in blue.
The table can be found at the following link:
table of teaching activities
.
MASTER'S DEGREE COMMITTEE
Professor Luciana Caenazzo – Associate Professor of Legal Medicine, University of Padua (Director of Master’s Course);
Professor Jean Paul Belgrado – Associate Professor at the Faculty of Motor Sciences, Free University of Brussels;
Professor Giacomo Rossitto – Internal Medicine Researcher, University of Padua;
Dr. Pamela Tozzo – Legal Medicine Researcher, University of Padua;
Dr. Silvia Fontana – Physiatrist from A.ULSS 7 Pedemontana.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
30/09/2026
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
20
Maximum available spots:
30
First instalment:
€
									3.522,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.506,50
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
How is the academic portion structured?
The
Master’s
course includes the following over the two-year period:
352 hours of theoretical
lectures
on basic subjects, 148 of which to be held in person and 204 offered virtually;
200 hours of
workshops
, including 40 hours to prepare for the workshops online and 160 hours in person;
50 hours of
observational training
;
150 hours of independent preparation for the
project work
;
50 hours of independent preparation for the final exam.
The workshops will be held at the AULSS 7 Pedemontana.
How will the academics be distributed throughout the year?
Courses will be offered with a mixed format (in person and online) in varying percentages:
Base Subjects
about 60% online mainly in the evenings from 6-8.15 pm or 7-9.15 pm (about 38-40 evenings in the first year and 18-20 evenings in the second year) and on some Saturday mornings (about 4-5 mornings in the first year and 1-2 mornings in the second year)
about 40% in person in 4 weekends/year (THURSDAY-FRIDAY-SATURDAY).
Workshops
About 20% online mainly in the evenings from 6-8.15pm or 7-9.15pm (about 5 evenings/year) and on 1 Saturday morning in the first year; about 80% in person (9 days/year).
Where will lessons be held?
The lessons on basic subjects held in person will take place at the University of Padua. The workshops will be held at the AULSS 7 Pedemontana.
Where will those taking part in apprenticeships stay?
In order to favour the participation of students from throughout the country and to improve chances of being selected, there are locations in various Italian regions (Veneto, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Lombardy, Piedmont, Lazio, Puglia, and Campania) as well as locations abroad (Austria, Switzerland, France).
Classes start:
20/11/2024
Duration:
Two-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
blended
Total enrolment fee:
€
							5.029,00
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Luciana Caenazzo
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
UniSMART Fondazione Università di Padova
Phone:
3346005104
Email:
formazione@unismart.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top