Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/mam-medical-anthropology/

Skip to content
First level university master
MAM
Medical Anthropology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
MAM - Medical Anthropology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
MAM - Medical Anthropology
The
Master in Medical Anthropology
prepares students for an in-depth, cultured and reflexively critical understanding of the body’s cultural representations, of health and disease dynamics, of healthcare policies and day-to-day practices in care places. This interdisciplinary program includes, in an innovative manner, the history of medicine and epidemiology in a
medical anthropology and ethnography perspective.
It also provides a deep understanding of the different cultural, political, social and financial perspectives on health and disease, by introducing students to the historical and anthropological research on the concepts of disease and care. The Master is relevant in the current job market, given the growing demand for experts capable of understanding the cultural and social dynamics of health, crucial to tackle the healthcare challenges in such a globalized world, through critical cultural competence and transformative ethical sensibility.
Contenuti formativi
The
Master in Medical Anthropology
provides theoretical-practical knowledge on the fundamentals of medical anthropology, and helps students develop research projects and apply the knowledge and skills acquired independently.
This advanced program explores the relation between health, disease, collective representations, and ideology, and shows how healthcare practices and beliefs vary between societies, and how cultural, social, economic and political dynamics affect health and access to treatment.
Medical anthropology examines the ways in which health and well-being are socially and culturally established, in comparative and trans-national contexts, and the ways in which culture can affect how medicine, disease and healing process are experienced in individuals and in societies; moreover, it explores how body and self, and the notion of individuals and persons are perceived.
It actively promotes a debate between anthropology, clinical practice, scientific knowledge, primary and public health in different national and global contexts, by dealing mainly (although not exclusively) with:
Analysis of the care systems and their social-cultural variability.
“Traditional” medicine”.
Analysis of medicalization processes in care contexts.
Destinatari e sbocchi occupazionali
The
Master in Medical Anthropology
is addressed to:
Graduates in humanistic and social disciplines
Graduates in healthcare disciplines
Healthcare or NGO professionals, healthcare policy and global health program consultants, people working in international healthcare-related contexts
Medical anthropology and social sciences researchers and scholars
Public healthcare professionals looking for a cultural approach in their practice
The competences acquired are relevant for:
Academic research and research institutions
Public and private healthcare sector
Healthcare policy and community health program consultancy
Support to healthcare institutions and personnel
Preventative healthcare and maintenance
Some of the skills acquired include:
Conducting historical-anthropological research on healthcare topics
Understanding the interconnections between culture, society and health
Analysing and intervening on healthcare policies with a cultural approach
Knowledge of healthcare practices and beliefs in different societies
Managing healthcare projects in intercultural contexts
promoting healthcare equity through cultural understanding
Consultancy and surveys on public healthcare perception in different national and transnational contexts
Programma
The
Master in Medical Anthropology
is divided into the following modules:
Module 1 – History of Medicine
Paleopathology and biological anthropology applied to medical anthropology
History of care from prehistory to the modern age: diseases and pathologies
The impact of Darwinism on medicine, and the impact of medicine on human evolution
Introduction to the relationship between history of medicine and medical anthropology
Module 2 – Quantitative Approaches to Medical Anthropology
Quantitative research in medical anthropology
Data analysis and interpretation
Ethnobotany, anthropometry and quantitative approaches
Module 3 – Introduction to Medical Anthropology
Key concepts in medical anthropology and main theoretical approaches
Introduction to the main qualitative methods used in anthropology
Module 4 – Dualisms and Body Anthropology
Culture shapes the body, by affecting styles and practices. In the contemporary world, the modern body is increasingly subjected to and the object of well-being practices (shape) and body ‘improvement’ regimes, based on certain performance or aesthetic canons (diets, cosmetic, fitness, bodybuilding…). This module addresses cultural influences, with the aim of debunking, deconstructing and analysing social, political and cultural logics behind the construction of the body.
Module 5 – Diseases
Concept of disease and its social constructs
Anthropological analysis of pandemics, from Aids to Covid-19
Module 6 – Health
The disease-health dichotomy to highlight how fluid the boundary really is. How is health defined and governed? What are the policies implemented? What are the social and cultural differences and how do they affect people’s health.
Module 7 – Structural Violence
This module focuses on the different forms of violence; in particular, it analyses those forms of violence that, based on their definition in an anthropological context, are generated by the way society is organized and by its inequalities, “which translate into diseases, misery, child mortality, sexual abuse”, and in general, into all the forms of inequality in accessing healthcare.
Method 8 – Care and Ethics
Focus on the concept of care. This module focuses on active listening, on the doctor-patient relation, and on all those situations in which care relationships are involved (seniors, fragile people, new-borns, etc.). This module is a space for thought for professionals active in different sectors, and also for citizens directly and indirectly affected by fragility situations in their family and friends network. Beyond the ethic of obligation, without denying it.
Erogazione della didattica
The Master’s lessons will be provided online, on the Moodle platform, and on-demand, as the videos may be seen in asynchronous mode, and are accessible to students 24/7. It features on-demand lessons,  as it was designed for students and professionals who wish to conciliate other activities and professions with the need to qualify or specialize themselves further.  There will be frequent and easy interaction between students and teachers, through Moodle’s Forum, a place designed to exchange reflections or ask questions on the modules covered during the Master.
It lasts one year, with video lessons held between November/December 2024 and May 2025.
At the end of each module, students will be required to complete the relevant
homework,
in asynchronous mode, to ascertain their knowledge. Among them, the aforementioned research project or an ethnography on a topic relevant to the modules covered during the course. At the end of the year, the project will be presented by the student online, via Zoom.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
200
First instalment:
€
									2.022,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.000,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
What are the minimum attendance requirements?
Attendance is mandatory, and in order to obtain the title, 70% of the online lessons must be completed.
Will there be any forms of facilitation?
Students with disabilities between 66% and 100%, or certification pursuant to Law no. 104, will be exempted from paying the enrolment fee, and will be only required to pay the pre-enrolment fee, the insurance fee, and stamp
PA and top grades: PA employees enrolling in our Master, will enjoy a €330 reduction on the second registration
University staff with an open-ended employment contract may enrol in the course. The enrolment fee for University Technical-Administrative Staff is equal to the minimum enrolment fee, as established by Article 24, p. 1 of the University Regulation for Master Courses, Post-Graduate and Higher Education Courses of the University of Padua, and is equal to 20% of the fee. If the staff with open-ended labour contract possesses the requirements to enrol in the Course, once the Master is over, they will obtain the related Title or Diploma, or, if they do not possess the selection requirements, they may attend as Auditors and obtain an Attendance Certificate.
The enrolment fee for Auditors is 50% of the Master’s regular fee.
What is the final Project Work?
The final Project Work will consist in a paper exploring one of the topics covered during the Master. During the Project Work (generally from the end of the Master until the beginning of September), students will be flanked by a tutor for the entire process. At the end of the course, students will present their Project Work before an on-line committee on the Zoom platform.
How will the selection take place?
The Master admission selection is based on qualifications only. The selection method is described on the Master announcement.
Classes start:
02/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
Distance learning
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.022,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Ferdinando Fava
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Unità di Biostatistica, Epidemiologia e Sanità Pubblica
Phone:
3312601668
Email:
segreteria.master@ubep.unipd.it
Alternative contact
Contact Person:
Deputy Directors: Prof. Alberto Zanatta and Prof. Dario Nardini
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top