Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/mas-aeronautical-and-space-medicine/

Skip to content
Post graduate programme
MAS
Aeronautical and space medicine
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
MAS - Aeronautical and space medicine
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
MAS - Aeronautical and space medicine
The Course in Aeronautical and Space Medicine
allows for in-depth study of all topics relating to pathological and physiological changes in flight and aerospace flight conditions. From a purely professional point of view, it emphasises the certification implications, which is why it attracts many students from the fields of occupational medicine and forensic medicine. The advanced training course is recognised as being part of the process to obtain authorisation as an
Aviation Medical Examiner (AME)
and allows for cultural and professional enrichment for those physicians involved in aviation health services (airport health services, etc.).
Educational content
The Course in Aeronautical and Space Medicine
allows for in-depth study of the ability to adapt to extreme living conditions (microgravity, hypobarism, ionising and cosmic radiation); active and passive protection technologies and methods; changes in cardiovascular, respiratory, and motor functions; balance and spatial orientation, skeletal physiology and remodelling; cellular and organ adaptations to extreme and stressful conditions; immunology; agents and vectors of infections; sensory, chronological, circadian, and nutritional adaptations in atmospheric and extra-atmospheric flight; high-altitude pulmonary oedema; monitoring and telemedicine.
In addition, the course allows for developing and furthering
skills having to do with the physiological mechanisms
involved in terrestrial and space flight, and in assessing candidates and the preparatory training for these activities.
Course target and career opportunities
The Course in Aeronautical and Space Medicine
promoted by the Department of Neuroscience at the University of Padua is aimed at physicians who would like to learn more about pathological and physiological changes in flight and aerospace flight conditions. It provides cultural and professional enrichment for professionals working in health services in the aeronautical field. The course is recognised as being part of the process to obtain authorisation as an
Aviation Medical Examiner (AME).
Course program
The Course in Aeronautical and Space Medicine
will offer training in:
PHYSICAL CONDITIONS OF FLIGHT AND EFFECTS ON BIOLOGICAL SYSTEMS:
effects of aerospace flight conditions on the nervous system
EFFECTS ON THE MOTOR SYSTEM IN EXTREME CONDITIONS
: effects of flight conditions on the musculoskeletal system
PHYSIOPATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN SENSORY SYSTEMS
REGULATORY AND CERTIFICATION ASPECTS IN AVIATION AND SPACE MEDICINE
:
standards and regulations in terms of risks in aviation and medical/legal implications
PHYSIOPATHOLOGICAL CHANGES IN THE NERVOUS SYSTEM AND PSYCHO-ENVIRONMENTAL BALANCE
: psychological implications
PHYSICAL FLIGHT CONDITIONS AND EFFECTS ON BIOLOGICAL SYSTEMS:
engineering of materials and space medicine
PHYSIOPATHOLOGICAL CHANGES
OF THE STOMATOGNATHIC AND RESPIRATORY SYSTEMS:
forensic dentistry in the dental field
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2023/24 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
29/09/2024
Mandatory attendance:
80%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
50
Single instalment:
€
									722,50
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
How are the lessons organised?
The course includes in-person lectures, distance learning lectures, tutorials, seminars and, at the end of the course, a final examination. This test consists of a discussion of a thesis with a final interview on the course. There are also to be hands-on activities outside of the classroom, including visits to logistics, health, and airport first-aid organisations along with learning about systems for physiological assessments under extreme conditions (e.g. centrifuge and catapult, navigating at night) at the Air Force experimental medical laboratory in Pratica di Mare. These extreme activities – with weekly on-site activities – will take place at the following centres
Healthcare and Emergency Centre, Malpensa Airport, 21010 Ferno Varese;
ENAC National Civil Aviation Authority, Central Directorate, Aeronautical Medicine Office, Via del Castro Pretorio, 118 – 00185 Rome;
Healthcare and Emergency Centre, Marco Polo Airport, Tessera, Via Galilei, 30/1 – 30173 Venice.
Are scholarships or financial aid available?
Yes, for military doctors or those who work in a public capacity (State Police, Carabinieri, Fire Brigade, Army, Guardia di Finanza, Local Police, Forestry Corps, Prison Police, Coast Guard), doctors and personnel of  SANS (Health Care Services for Aircraft Personnel), regularly enrolled resident doctors and doctors who have graduated in the last 12 months. Please list this in the CV to be attached to your application.
Is there a maximum number of absences allowed?
Yes, attendance is compulsory for 80% of planned academic activities.
Are there any additional places available to those auditing?
Yes, the course has eight additional places for those auditing.
Will some candidates be given priority over others?
Yes, priority will be given to regularly enrolled resident doctors and specialists in: Occupational Medicine, Forensic Medicine, Radiodiagnostics, Sports Medicine, Cardiovascular Diseases, Respiratory Diseases.
Classes start:
13/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
12
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							772,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Andrea Porzionato
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Dt. Veronica Gabriele
Phone:
0498272317
Email:
veronica.gabriele@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top