Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/mbm-business-and-management/

Skip to content
First level university master
MBM
Business and management
Industry specific fragrance and cosmetic sector
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
MBM - Business and management
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
MBM - Business and management
The
Master in Business and Management (MBM)
delivered in partnership with European Fragrance and Cosmetics Master (EFCM) started in 2002 through an agreement between:
Department of Economics and Management, UniPD
Department of Pharmaceutical and Pharmacological Sciences, UniPD
ISIPCA (École Supérieure de la Production de la Mode et du Luxe)
l’Universitè de Versailles Saint-Quentin-En-Yvelines.
Our specific objectives are:
To provide a solid foundation in business, management, and marketing.
To prepare students for a career in the modern business world.
To immerse students in the realities of the cosmetics industry by combining theory with practice.
To offer students an international learning environment
Educational content
The teaching, in dual modality, takes place from September to the end of February, followed by a compulsory internship lasting at least 4 months either in Italy or abroad. Classes are held from Monday to Friday. The MBM program, entirely focused on the “Fragrance and Cosmetics” sector and held in English, is structured into seven main units and three industry-specific courses. The courses are taught by both Italian and international teaching staff, as well as professionals from important national and international industries.
The Master is based on a rich mix of training methodologies and technologies: lectures, seminars, case discussions, business games, company visits, interviews, group work, report writing and discussion, etc. The course concludes with the development and discussion of a Final Project Work.
At the end of the MBM program, students will acquire an in-depth knowledge of management and business applied to the perfume and cosmetic world, integrated within a broader framework of knowledge and understanding of the industrial world.
Target and career opportunities
The MBM is a one-year professional (short specialization program) designed for students who do not have an economics and/or business background. Therefore, it is ideal for students with a scientific degree. The program trains professionals to integrate their technical-scientific background with management concepts, content, language, and methods. It provides a solid foundation in various fields of management, accounting, finance, organization, marketing, production, strategy, international management, business planning, intercultural HR in multinationals, CSR and specific expertise in a particular industry sector.
The professional destinations so far, established in the Fragrance and Cosmetics sector, include activities such as product safety, product development, creative fragrance evaluation and management, science marketing, marketing management, sales management, technical management, junior entrepreneurship, communications, etc.
From the experience of past editions, there is a significant enhancement in the learning capabilities of the participants, largely supported by rapid job placement.
Programme
Module 1: ACCOUNTING AND FINANCE
This course focuses on the fundamental principles of measuring the value of a business and the reporting process. It includes an introduction to accounting systems, familiarizing students with the most important concepts and principles of accounting. The course aims to provide students with the basic knowledge and skills necessary to understand and analyze annual reports and to measure costs.)
Module 2: MANAGEMENT IN ORGANISATIONS
This course is based on the fundamental principles of business organization and human resource management. Students will examine how firms are structured within a larger socio-economic context, why systems of control and coordination vary across organizations and change over time, and how human resource techniques can contribute to improving the effectiveness of organizations
Module 3: OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT
The objectives of the course: Understanding the central role of operations in creating competitive advantage, Recognizing the strategic implications of operations, Understanding the nature of planning and control, Learning about lean management
Module 4: MARKETING MANAGEMENT AND CUSTOMER BEHAVIOUR
This course will help students gain insights into consumer and market for F&C, as well as provide a basic background in marketing principles of branding, retailing, distribution, and planning
Module 5: STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT OF THE ENTERPRISE
This course is centered around managing a business enterprise in relation to its industry and competitive environment. The focus is on how to create a sustainable competitive advantage by understanding the industry and the general environment, and by developing the core competencies needed to succeed in this environment
Module 6: BUSINESS PLAN
This course aims to be a multidisciplinary seminar that requires students to explore a potentially profitable business idea and develop an appropriate business plan. The central focus of this course is the business plan as a document increasingly adopted for the submission and evaluation of business proposals
Module 7: ADVANCED TOPICS IN MANAGEMENT
The course aims to provide a comprehensive discussion of corporate governance systems worldwide and to give students an understanding of the influence of culture on business practices, which is an important aspect of managing organizational talent
Module 8: NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT IN FRAGRANCE AND COSMETICS
The learning objective of this course is to provide students with the necessary elements to define successful strategies for launching new cosmetic products into the market
Module 9: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND REGULATORY AFFAIRS IN FRAGRANCE AND COSMETICS
The aim of the course is to integrate legal and theoretical knowledge with aspects of production and distribution within the cosmetic product industry
Module 10: MANAGEMENT OF OPERATIONS IN FRAGRANCE AND COSMETICS
The teaching objective of this course is to present and apply the knowledge acquired in the Operations course to the field of Cosmetics
MBM relevant features
Multiculturalism and an international learning environment are among the key features of the program, further contributing to the professional growth of students. This Master aims to train professionals who are highly competent at both technical and management levels.
The master program boasts a faculty comprised of Italian and international professors and experts, renowned for their expertise and professionalism.
In addition, the program includes regular group work and presentations of assignments related to current case studies and topics.
PARTNERS
Some of the companies that come either in the classroom to give the lectures or take our students as interns: L’Oréal Italia, L’Oréal Paris, L’Erbolario, Mavive, Mane Italia and Spain, Beauty San, BASF, Intercos, Beghin, Gattefossé, Unifarco, Estee Lauder, Chanel Parfumes, IFF, Givaudan, , Symrise (Italy ,France and Germany), Reckitt Benckiser Italia S.p.a , Jean Niel, etc.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Single course
Operations management
The main aim of the course is to understand that most of the things you can see around you, have been processed by an operation. The objectives are: understanding of the central role of operations in creating competitive advantage, the strategic implications of operations, he nature of planning and control, and lean management.
Strategic management of the enterprise
This course is about managing a business enterprise in relation to its industry and competitive environment. The focus is on how to create a sustainable competitive advantage by understanding the industry and the general environment and by developing the core competence that are needed to succeed in this environment.
Information
Thematic area:
Finance, Law and International relations
End of classes:
30/09/2025
Mandatory attendance:
90%
Minimum available spots:
30
Maximum available spots:
50
First instalment:
€
									5.599,50
Second instalment:
€
									2.000,00
Selection process notice
Website
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
What are the MBM program entry requirements? Is there any scholarship?
The MBM program is designed for students who do not have a previous background in business and economics. Therefore, it is mainly for students with a science degree (at least a Bachelor’s degree), which is the primary requirement. We do not require official certification of English proficiency, but an intermediate level is the minimum level sufficient to understand, interact, and communicate with teachers and the international group.
Additionally, there is generally no scholarship available for professional master’s degrees (short specialization degrees)
How is the 24-25 teaching organized? Will it possible to attend classes online?
For the academic year 2024-2025, the teaching will be organized in a DUAL MODALITY, which means that courses will be offered simultaneously online (on Zoom) and in person. However, you are allowed to attend online classes for only 30% of the entire teaching period (September-February).
Which days of the week will classes be held? Which is the required percentage of attendance?
Classes are held from Monday to Friday for at least 3 or 4 hours each day. Attending the Master’s program can be challenging to reconcile with primary work commitments, especially considering the required percentage of mandatory attendance, which is 90%.
Is the internship included in the program? How do students usually find an internship?
Yes, the second part of the MBM program, from March to September, will be dedicated to the internship and developing a final report called the Final Project Work. The internship needs to be a minimum of 4 months. In addition to students searching for opportunities themselves, the Master office staff will provide constant assistance and support, including CV optimization, interview simulations, and establishing contacts with companies.
How can I apply to the MBM program?
You need to wait for the call for applications, which usually comes out around mid-June, and then follow all the instructions to submit the application by the indicated deadline in August.
Since the MBM program is considered the second year of the European Fragrance and Cosmetics Master (EFCM), there are limited seats available each year for those who wish to enroll only in the Master in Business and Management without attending the first year of the EFCM program.
Classes start:
05/09/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
English
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							7.599,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
26/08/2024
Management
Prof. Boesso Giacomo
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Ufficio Master - Iv Piano Via Bassi 1
Phone:
0498271229
Email:
master.economia@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top