Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/mcp-management-of-primary-care-long-term-care-from-fragility-to-longevity/

Skip to content
First level university master
MCP
Management of primary care - Long Term Care from fragility to longevity
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
MCP - Management of primary care - Long Term Care from fragility to longevity
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
MCP - Management of primary care - Long Term Care from fragility to longevity
The
First-level short specialisation degree
in Management of primary care – Long Term Care from fragility to longevity
prepares specialists expert in the management and coordination of healthcare and social support interventions, based on the needs of the person and their families, while ensuring a suitable resource allocations in such context.
The goal is to train professional figures with optimal competences to
accompany the patient during the entire course of treatment
, from when they are taken over until the independent care, with application in the different fields, such as hospital units, local units, social and health districts, nursing homes.
Educational content
The
First-level short specialisation degree
in Management of primary care – Long Term Care from fragility to longevity
includes several training levels: from framing the phenomenon to an overview of the patients, tools and approaches, and then onto a basic preparation that also includes medical-legal aspects, and finally medical and professionalizing training.
There are multiple
occasions for hands-on practice
in hospital and social/health contexts offered during the training course. Thanks to the supervision and guide of dedicated tutors, attendees will have the chance to explore and apply what they learned during the lessons.
Course target and career opportunities
The
First-level short specialisation degree
in Management of primary care – Long Term Care from fragility to longevity
is addressed to everyone in possession with a degree in healthcare prevention, healthcare rehabilitation, nursing, and obstetrician professions.
The reference job areas are in
healthcare and local service institutions
:
basic healthcare services
integrated home care
hospital and local semi-residential and residential care services
hospital services
healthcare and health/social districts
nursing homes
hospices
In particular, the S
hort specialisation degree
is addressed to nurses who want to take on
medical and organizational specialization
roles.
Course program
The
First-level short specialisation degree
in Management of primary care – Long Term Care from fragility to longevity
entails an initial training on the following topics:
Framing the issue, description and dimension of the
phenomenon
Type of
fragile patients
with clinical overview
Methods and tools to
detect
the cognitive status of the person, meant as clinical parameter
Main behavioural
issues
and consequent intervention
approaches
to take over the fragile person
Followed by
basic training
covering the following topics:
Assessment and take-over tools for fragile patients
Long term continuous care
Educational-relational aspects
Hospital dimension and continuous care
Medical, legal and ethical/deontological aspects
Legal end of life aspects
The
medical training
will continue by exploring the following topics:
Long term nursing care
Cognitive and interpersonal dynamic decline
Vascular access management
Skin ulcer management
Nutritional status assessment
Lastly,
professionalizing training
covers:
Patient’s support in the end of life portion
Advanced treatment directives
Informed consent
Medical risk management
Professional liability
Hospital infections
Pain management
Pharmacological treatment and medicine interaction
Admission and teaching mode
The
First-level short specialisation degree
in Management of primary care – Long Term Care from fragility to longevity
includes in-person lessons, concentrated in short periods agreed between professors and students, for a total of 270 hours.
This is complemented by individual training with
hands-on practice and traineeship
, in hospital and health/social care settings, in partner units, for a total of 80 hours.
Self-managed individual study
amounts to approximately 600 hours. Lastly, the
project work
consists in drafting a text on an improvement project, to be presented to your Operating Unit/Department/Company, and entailing the implementation of organizational care models for fragile and/or non-self-sufficient patients, for a total of approx. 400 hours of individual work.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this First-level short specialisation degree according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
24/07/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
10
Maximum available spots:
30
First instalment:
€
									1.622,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.004,00
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
Will there be medical care activities on patients?
No, the S
hort specialisation degree
only includes observational activities.
Is attendance mandatory?
It is mandatory to attend at least 70% of the total hours of lessons of the S
hort specialisation degree.
Will there be a final exam?
Yes, the final exam consists in the production and oral presentation of a dissertation concerning a project to improve the take-over of fragile patients in a preset care context.
Classes start:
28/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.626,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Luca Spiezia
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Luca Spiezia
Phone:
049 8217956
Email:
luca.spiezia@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top