Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/mdm-mountain-medicine/

Skip to content
Post graduate programme
MDM
Mountain medicine
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
MDM - Mountain medicine
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
MDM - Mountain medicine
The
Post-Graduate Course in Mountain Medicine
provides the knowledge and theoretical-practical competencies concerning all the aspects and medical issues related to a person’s exposure to a mountain environment and high altitudes.
The purpose of the Course is to train professional healthcare figures prepared to tackle the specific issues of
physiopathology in mountain environments.
In particular, it provides theoretical information on the physical and climate characteristics of the mountain environment, basic knowledge on rescue techniques on the mountains, by analysing avalanche accidents and their prevention, mountain injuries, trauma management and bandaging techniques, and injured person transportation methods. It also covers
issues concerning altitude sickness
and its most severe manifestations (pulmonary and cerebral oedema), it explores the relationship between pre-existing pathologies and mountain stays, and mountain adaptation in children and seniors.
Educational content
The Post-Graduate Course in Mountain Medicine includes the following content:
Theoretical units:
geography elements concerning the main mountain regions; body adaptation to hypoxia and altitude; altitude-related pathologies; thermoregulation and cold-related pathology; pre-existing pathology and mountain environment; specific medical-surgical emergency issues in the mountains; specific hygiene and food-related issues in the mountains; pharmacology principles and treatment in approaching and staying at high altitudes; genetic adaptation in high altitude populations.
Practical units
: mountain rescue issues and methods; resuscitation and first aid; searches at high altitudes: theoretical and methodological issues; specific tools and hands-on lessons on alpine and rescue techniques on rocks or ice, with the guide of extremely qualified personnel (mountain doctors, alpine guides and alpine rescue team).
Course target and career opportunities
The
Post-Graduate Course in Mountain Medicine
trains professionals such as doctors, nurses and other healthcare figures, interested in working in alpine rescue, in the
mountain area rescue service
and/or taking part or covering a healthcare role in alpine and trekking expeditions at high altitude. The course is valid also for doctors with different specializations who work in mountain areas, and for doctors who will take over a
specific
mountain medicine clinic. Lastly, the course may be useful to introduce people with various backgrounds to scientific topics and mountain research, also promoting the development of contacts for future research projects in this field.
At the end of the Course, doctors will be provided with a certificate attesting the completion of a
qualified climbing course
, and the
Union Internationale des Associations d’Alpinisme (UIAA)
qualification
and
certification
. The Course is
CME
certified, even for listeners.
Course program
The Post-Graduate Course  in in Mountain Medicine provides training on:
Module 1 –
MOUNTAIN ENVIRONMENT
Physical variables, genesis and evolution of the Alpine mountains Meteorology and topography of the mountain environment. Climbing techniques, rescue techniques and helicopter rescue techniques.
Module 2 –
AVALANCHES: MEDICAL ASPECTS
Avalanches and hypothermia: localization and survival systems, rescue techniques and medical treatment. Snow science and alpine-skiing techniques.
Module 3 –
HIGH ALTITUDE PHYSIOLOGY
Acute and chronic musculoskeletal, metabolism and cardiopulmonary system adaptations at high altitude. Workout physiology and genetic hypoxia adaptation.
Module 4 –
HIGH ALTITUDE AND PRE-EXISTING PATHOLOGIES
High altitude and pulmonary pathologies and cardiovascular diseases. Medical aspects in children and seniors in the mountains.
Module 5 –
HIGH ALTITUDE PHYSIOPATHOLOGY
Altitude sickness, high altitude pulmonary and cerebral oedema general aspects, treatment and prevention. The role of a doctor during an alpine expedition.
Module 6 –
GENERAL MOUNTAIN MEDICINE ASPECTS
Different pathologies related to mountain medicine. Mountain nutrition. Mountain Medicine clinic. Legal aspects. History of Mountain Medicine.
Module 7 –
TRAUMATOLOGY IN THE MOUNTAINS
Acute and chronic orthopaedic pathology in climbing. Resuscitation and pre-hospital first aid techniques. Functional bandaging and first aid kits.
Module 8 –
UPDATES:
Update and verification of the competencies acquired: remote learning and interactive sessions.
Partner institutions
The topics covered during the Post-Graduate Course – some of which are also practical (climbing and rescue techniques on rock and ice), require specific professional skills, therefore the Post-Graduate Course has established partnerships with Bodies and Companies (EURAC / Provincia Autonoma di Bolzano / Comando Truppe Alpine di Bolzano).
Seat and methods of implementation
The course is divided into 3 one-week long sessions:
one winter week in Bressanone (BZ) Via Rio Bianco, 12 – 39042 Bressanone (BZ);
one summer week in Arabba (BL) Caserma Gioppi, Arabba – Frazione Arabba – 32020 Livinallongo del Col di Lana (BL);
one final week, usually in September, in Sesto (BZ).
During the year, there will be a few remote lessons, usually on Saturday morning, for which attendance is always mandatory.
All online and in-person lessons will be recorded and made available on the Moodle platform of the University of Padua.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2023/24 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
30/09/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
15
Maximum available spots:
30
Single instalment:
€
									1.472,50
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
What is the maximum absence threshold for the course?
Attendance of at least 70% of theoretical lessons (in-person or remote through Zoom platform), seminars, and practical lessons held during the three weeks is mandatory.
What are the applicants selection criteria for the Post-Graduate Course?
The requirements for admission to the Post-Graduate Course are the possession of one of the following titles:
Degree in Medicine and Surgery; Degree in Dentistry and Dental Prosthetics
College Nursing Diploma; College Diploma in Nursing Sciences
Bachelor’s Degree in Healthcare, Nursing or Obstetrics
Specialization/Master’s Degree in Nursing or Obstetrics
Regional Nursing Diploma, alongside a high school diploma/level two secondary school state exam
University students may also apply, provided that they acquire the relevant title before the start of the post-graduate course.
No specific physical abilities are required; however, in case of functional limitations that prevent the undertaking of the practical activities, you can enrol as listener, with attendance only of the theoretical part.
Will there be any form of facilitation/tax exemption?
If the minimum number of 15 students enrolled is exceeded, based on the ranking, up to 10 attendees can benefit from a discounted registration fee. Applicable only to newly-graduate doctors (within one AA from the graduation date) and doctors attending a graduate school (including those enrolled in the last year, provided that the graduation date does not precede the course start date).
Based on the ranking, there are 2 places reserved for attendees from Alpine Troupes (or other Military Institutions) and 2 places for attendees working in the Bolzano Province, with priority for one of the two places for attendees working at Eurac Research. These applicants will be exempted from paying the enrolment tax (registration fee €40.50).
Also, a scholarship will be granted (gross amount €380.00).
How do I pass the course? Are there any CME credits?
At the end of the course, those who will have attended 70% of the lessons can take a multiple choice exam on the topics covered.
At the end of the winter and summer weeks, there will be a CME test concerning the topics covered. Following the test, you will be awarded the related CME credits.
Classes start:
30/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Bressanone (BZ), Province of Belluno
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
18
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							1.472,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Andrea Ermolao
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Sabrina Ceron
Phone:
0498215857
Email:
medicinadimontagna.dimed@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top