Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/medpe-perinatal-medicine-and-intensive-neonatal-care/

Skip to content
Second level university master
MEDPE
Perinatal medicine and intensive neonatal care
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
MEDPE - Perinatal medicine and intensive neonatal care
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
MEDPE - Perinatal medicine and intensive neonatal care
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree in Perinatal Medicine and Intensive Neonatal Care
prepares doctors in the sub-specialized field of neonatology and intensive neonatal care.
The course includes theoretical training based on interactive EBM lessons, and full-time exposure to clinical work in specialized wards, by participating in the activities under the supervision of a tutor.
Educational content
The course units of the Second-level Short Specialisation Degree in Perinatal Medicine and Intensive Neonatal Care prepare professionals on the foetus and new-born physiology and physiopathology, and their changes over time.
Furthermore, doctors learn how to tackle neonatal and delivery room emergencies, how to diagnose acute neonatal pathology, the signs and symptoms of organ and system failures, and their rational therapy. They also learn the issues of neonatal transportation medicine and how to apply a global care program to new-borns, with particular focus on chronic diseases and neonatal insurgence, and on psychomotor development and vital function monitoring and support techniques.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree in Perinatal Medicine and Intensive Neonatal Care
is addressed to doctors who want to specialize in the sub-specialized field of neonatology and intensive neonatal care.
The professional figures formed are capable of working as medical directors in Paediatrics/Neonatology wards, in Hospitals, Universities, Care Homes with Obstetrics and Childbirth Unit Wards.
Course program
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Perinatal Medicine and Intensive Neonatal Care
provides training on:
Perinatal medicine
Perinatal medicine
Neonatology
Neonatal care
Paediatric cardiology
Paediatric surgery
Infectious diseases
Paediatric nephrology
Paediatric pneumology
Paediatric radiology
Paediatric neurology
Brain scans
Neurophysiology
Neonatal transportation medicine
Pain therapy
Intensive Neonatal Care
Intensive neonatal care 1 – 2 – 3
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
80%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
12
First instalment:
€
									1.672,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.000,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
How is the course organized?
The course comprises: lessons, workshops, practice, seminars, testimonies by experts, stages, project work, final exam.
Attendance
is one week per month, to be agreed with the professor.
Traineeships
will be carried out at the different wards (intensive neonatal care and pathology, paediatric surgery and maternity clinic) of the Women and Child’s Heath Department, under the direct supervision of tutors selected among university professors and medical directors belonging to the Master’s faculty.
It will also include participation to
seminars and ward activities
, complemented by individual study and preparation. Furthermore, attendees will participate in Delivery Room Resuscitation Courses.
Classes start:
11/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.672,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Daniele Trevisanuto - Vicedirector Prof. Eugenio Baraldi
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Andrea Fascina
Phone:
0498218081
Email:
andrea.fascina@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top