Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/mgi-international-business-lawyer/

Skip to content
Second level university master
MGI
International business lawyer
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
MGI - International business lawyer
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
MGI - International business lawyer
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree for International business lawyer
is addressed to lawyers, managers and newly graduates who want to acquire competencies in this sector.
The Course focuses on European and national law – one of the main tools to manage a business subject to the challenges of the global market – and prepares attendees to tackle the new demands in terms of
governance
,
commercial strategies, staff management, investments, financial support and
credit
and
asset protection
(including intangible assets). Today, new comparison paradigms extend the sphere of competence of a business, and, consequently, of a corporate jurist:
corporate social responsibility
,
digital
and
green economy
,
A.I.
and work organization after the pandemic.
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree for International business lawyer
aims at providing specialized theoretical-practical knowledge to work as jurist in medium-large companies, and to tackle the issues resulting from their presence in international markets.
Educational content
The course units of the
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
for International business lawyer
are characterized by a predominant
pragmatism
, based on the union between the theoretical discussion of legal institutions, with exercises on practical cases, and the internship in an affiliated company, professional firm or institution.
The course comprises four macro-areas:
European and International Law area
Private Law area
Public Law area
Legal English
The legal framework of production activities, between market globalization, technological innovation and the long period of economic recession, is subject to constant interpretations and modifications by national and Community legislators, and this requires operators and companies to be always up-to-date with their competencies.
Therefore, the Master is a
useful and qualifying professionalizing course
for corporate figures and business consultants who have to tackle complex and multi-disciplinary legal issues, identify the most efficient business strategies in the international market, and, in general, manage strategies and operative procedures to solve the issues caused by the entrepreneurial activity.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
for International business lawyer
is addressed to lawyers who work for companies, in-house attorneys, managers who want to acquire competencies also in the legal sector, and newly-graduates who want to work in the legal office of a company.
Since the Master helps to acquire the ability to detect and tackle
business-related legal-judicial issues
and identify their solution, especially within the international context in which the company works, it trains professional figures such as
corporate jurists
, to be employed in corporate legal offices,
corporate legal consultants
, and
attorneys
specialized in corporate law.
Course program
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
for International business lawyer
provides training on 4 macro-areas, divided in turns in educational modules:
EUROPEAN AND INTERNATIONAL LAW
Market and competition law
Investment and international trade law
Private, procedural and network law
Customs law
PRIVATE LAW
International contract law and European contract law
Financial market law
Trusts law
Labour law in corporate restructuring
Corporate law and business accounting
Business crisis law and M&A
Intellectual property law
Legal corporate computer science
PUBLIC LAW
International tax law
National and international arbitration law
Economic criminal law and corporate social responsibility
LEGAL ENGLISH
Legal English
RECOGNITION OF PREVIOUS CREDITS
A maximum of 20 CFU will be recognized for previous attendance of: legal practice schools, (Level 1 and 2) Master’s Degrees, doctorates, higher education courses (certified or promoted by relevant training institutions), single courses and post-graduate schools in the legal field, or related to the Master’s Degree, after evaluation by the organizing committee.
SINGLE COURSES
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
for International business lawyer
allows attendance of the following single courses:
Customs law (12 hours – November 2024 – January 20245 – fee: €200.00 – max 8 seats)
International contract law and European contract law (30 hours – January 2025 – May 2025 – fee: €400.00 – max 5 seats)
Public contract law
(12 hours – February 2025 – April 2025 – fee: €200.00 – max 5 seats)
Legal corporate computer science
(12 hours – March 2025 – May 2025 – fee: €200.00 – max 5 seats)
At the end of each single course, there will be an evaluation test before the issuance of the certificate attesting the attendance or the successful completion of the course, based on the different requirements listed in the selection call for each course.
NETWORKING AND WORKSHOPS
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
for International business lawyer
will be held in-presence on the first day and on 2 other days, dedicated to insights on specific topics, with the participation of scholars, professionals, corporate jurists, entrepreneurs and representatives from partner companies, mainly aimed at the students’ discussion and comparison. These events are a change to expand your network and create new professional collaboration opportunities.
Master’s partner companies:
Bottega S.p.A.
Danieli & C. S.p.A.
DeLonghi S.p.A.
Lagardère SCA
Marcolin S.p.A.
Mitsubishi Electric Hydronics & IT Cooling Systems S.p.A
Ormesani S.r.l.
Rizzani De Eccher
Tecnoeka S.r.l.
Master’s Partner Studios:
Àdest Legal & Tax
Bergs & More
BM&A Studio Legale Associato
SAT Studio Legale – Spinazzi Azzarita Troi Genito
SNBS Studio Notarile Bevilacqua Simoncini
Studio De Poli – Venezia
Master’s Partner
Fondazione Cassa di Risparmio di Padova e Rovigo
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Single course
DIRITTO DEI CONTRATTI PUBBLICI
Il corso delinea un quadro della normativa vigente e delle problematiche in essere individuando possibili strategie, azioni e strumenti in grado di semplificare la gestione degli appalti, rimuovendo gli ostacoli che oggi impediscono la piena digitalizzazione e una “trasparenza semplificata” ed efficace.
CONTRATTUALISTICA INTERNAZIONALE E DIRITTO EUROPEO DEI CONTRATTI
Il corso sarà dedicato alla disamina dei principi e modelli consolidati nel diritto contrattuale di derivazione comunitaria, attraverso l’analisi delle principali compilazioni di soft law. Saranno trattate alcune tra le figure contrattuali internazionali più diffuse. Le lezioni prevedono la partecipazione attiva degli iscritti.
DIRITTO DOGANALE
Il corso si pone l’obiettivo di fornire una formazione specialistica nella disciplina doganale, al fine di pianificare correttamente le operazioni di scambio nel commercio internazionale.
Le lezioni verranno svolte con un approccio tecnico-pratico, sui principali temi del Diritto Doganale.
INFORMATICA GIURIDICA PER L'AZIENDA
Attraverso la presentazione di casi concreti, il corso analizza i profili informatico-giuridici connessi all’utilizzo delle nuove tecnologie in ambito aziendale per la comprensione della strutturazione dei sistemi informatici, coerenti con le tecnologie informatiche di ultima generazione e le norme di legge nazionali ed internazionali.
INTERNATIONAL CONTRACT LAW AND EUROPEAN CONTRACT LAW
The course will cover the principles and models consolidated in community contract law, by analysing the main soft law compilations. It will focus on some of the most widespread international contract types. The lessons require active participation by the attendees.
DIRITTO DEI TRUSTS
Il corso mira a fornire una conoscenza specialistica del Trust, con approccio teorico e pratico attraverso lo studio di casi concreti. Si farà sempre riferimento ai modelli anglosassoni, dove l’istituto è nato, e alle recenti pronunce nazionali e internazionali che ne hanno modificato o esplicitato il funzionamento.
CUSTOMS LAW
The purpose of this course is providing specific training on customers law, in order to plan international trade operations correctly.
The lessons will be held with a technical-practical approach, on the main topics of Customs Law.
PUBLIC CONTRACT LAW
The course covers the current legal framework and issues, identifying possible strategies, tools and actions to streamline tender management, and remove the obstacles that still prevent a full digitization and a “simplified” and effective transparency.
LEGAL CORPORATE COMPUTER SCIENCE
By presenting actual cases, the course analyses the computer-legal profiles related to the use of new technologies for companies, to understand how IT systems are structured, consistently with latest-generation technologies and national and international laws.
Information
Thematic area:
Finance, Law and International relations
End of classes:
30/09/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
12
Maximum available spots:
30
First instalment:
€
									2.522,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.300,00
Selection process notice
La graduatoria generale di merito per l’a.a. 2024/2025 sarà disponibile qui, secondo le tempistiche dell’avviso di selezione.
FAQ
How is the teaching organized?
The activities are divided into 300 hours of
lessons
plus 200 hours of
traineeship
at the Master’s partner organizations, or at another organization identified by the student, even among those already affiliated with the University. As an alternative to the traineeship, attendees can opt for a
project work
concerning the analysis of a practical case related to one of the topics of the course. The project work must be a specific chapter of the final dissertation.
An
attendance
of at least 70% of the lessons is mandatory. Each student can be absent for up to 90 hours during the entire course. The 200 hours of traineeship must be carried out in full. The
final exam
will be done in September, on a written paper (25 pages minimum) about one of the topics covered by the Master’s modules.
Will the lesson materials be made available?
Yes, the materials used by the professors during the lessons will be uploaded to the University platform (Moodle), within the specific session dedicated to the
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
for International business lawyer
. Some of the materials will also be made available before the lessons, in order to allow a more effective, in-depth debate with the professors.
How will attendance be taken, since the lessons will be online?
The students’ attendance will be recorded several times during the day, remotely, by the Master’s tutors. Except for exceptional, documentable cases, at the Master Direction’s discretion, if the number of absences allowed (90 hours) is exceeded, the student won’t be able to access the final exam and therefore to achieve the Master’s title.
How will the traineeship take place?
The traineeship can be done at one of the Master’s partner companies, or at a company or organization chosen independently by the student. Every student can also apply to the traineeship offers available in the so-called “UNIPD display case”. Based on the agreements made by the University with partner companies, professional firms and other public/private organizations, traineeship will not be paid. In any case, applicants have the option of agreeing any possible reimbursement of expenses or benefits directly with the organization interested in hosting them.
What is the university badge and how is it used?
Starting from a.y. 2018/19, students enrolling in one of the courses of the University of Padua receive a card with university badge functions: the Flash Studio Card.
It is the University personal electronic badge, which identifies its holder as a student of the University of Padua, allowing them to access university services, or even a card with financial functions.
It is valid for 7 years, also in the case of continuing higher-level courses, or other courses within the University.
Classes start:
15/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Online
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
Distance learning
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.822,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Silvia Bertocco
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Dott.ssa Francesca Piazza
Phone:
0422 513610
Email:
formazione@unismart.it
Alternative contact
Contact Person:
UniSMART - Fondazione Università degli Studi di Padova
Phone:
formazione@unismart.it
Email:
formazione@unismart.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top