Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/mgr-mediation-and-restorative-justice/

Skip to content
Second level university master
MGR
Mediation and Restorative Justice
Methodology and tools for the application in the familiar, penal, community, organizational and commercial fields
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
MGR - Mediation and Restorative Justice
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
MGR - Mediation and Restorative Justice
The Master joins the second extraordinary pre-enrolment term from the 4th to the 25th November 2024, 12.30 pm.
The
Master’s in Mediation and Restorative Justice
prepares future mediators – given the growing demand to streamline the civil and criminal process – to refer more to restorative justice and conflict management paradigms in various areas.
The mediator manages the process in which two or more parties define their own, exclusive reality. The aim of the course is to develop
high level of mediation skills
, effective in assisting the parties in reaching common ground, through theoretical/methodological training and the observation of specific dispute indicators.
The Master’s course allows students to acquire
knowledge on the assumptions of restorative justice
, elements of law, the criminal and civil process, and the role of interactions in creating a common reality. The training also includes the development of intervention design skills, efficiency and effectiveness assessment and cost/benefit analysis.
Educational content
The
Master’s in Mediation and Restorative Justice
teaches students about the theoretical and methodological aspects of mediation, the restorative justice paradigm, the history of mediation, and the philosophy of conflict. It also takes on fundamentals of law and civil and criminal processes. The course focuses on the
study of the interactions
that come about in dispute and conflict settings and interacting with the various parties toward the creation of a third and common reality for them. Further elements that are touched upon concern the
coming up with mediation interventions
as well as mediation centres in the service network, the evaluation of the efficiency and effectiveness of interventions through the use of operational tools and the use of cost/benefit analysis methodologies.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Master’s in Mediation and Restorative Justice
is aimed at those who want  to acquire skills and knowledge in the mediation of disputes and conflicts in criminal, civil, commercial, family, community, and organisational areas.  The following
types of  professionals
will benefit from this kind of training: social workers, lawyers, judges, psychologists and psychotherapists, educators, teachers, condominium managers, accountants, and other professionals who manage conflicts and disputes.
Once they have completed the Master’s course, future mediators will understand
how mediation can play a part in criminal, civil and commercial, family, community and organisational contexts
. They will also master theoretical and methodological concepts that will allow them to develop high-level mediation skills as well as assess the efficiency and effectiveness of interventions, design interventions, and use methodologies for cost/benefit analysis.
Course program
The
Master’s in Mediation and Restorative Justice
takes on the following topics:
THEORETICAL and EPISTEMOLOGICAL ASPECTS OF MEDIATION
The course offers skills in the epistemological analysis of conflict and dispute and the theoretical elements to define intervention plans.
ANTHROPOLOGY AND PHILOSOPHY OF CONFLICT
This course offers elements of philosophy and anthropology for an understanding of conflict within the community and the ways in which it has changed over time.
ELEMENTS OF FAMILY RIGHTS
The course offers an overview of family law legislation.
CRIMINAL MEDIATIoN AND RESTORATIVE JUSTICE
This Master’s focuses on the application of restorative justice tools in criminal justice, for juveniles as well as adults, with a special focus on criminal mediation.
SHARED CUSTODY AND FAMILY MEDIATION
The course focuses on the context of disputes between parents over shared custody of children.
APPLICATION OF THE METHOD FOR CONFLICT MANAGEMENT
The course offers methodological skills in the application of mediation. It allows for the acquisition of skills in the use of the main methodological tools of the dialogic model.
MEDIATION AND POSSIBILITIES FOR USE IN PUBLIC POLICIES
The course provides knowledge about the framework of services available to public policies.
PLANNING A PENAL AND COMMUNITY MEDIATION CENTRE AS PART OF NETWORK OF COMMUNITY-ORIENTED SERVICES
This course provides knowledge on how to open and organise criminal and/or community mediation services.
HISTORY OF MEDIATION
The course offers knowledge about the history of mediation.
MIGRATION FLOWS AND MEDIATION
The course offers an analysis of the operational possibilities of mediation on the basis of the intercultural theoretical framework.
MEDIATION AT THE INTERNATIONAL LEVEL
The course offers knowledge on the application of the mediation tool in international contexts.
CONFLICT MANAGEMENT IN COMMUNITY, CRIMINAL, FAMILY, CIVIL AND COMMERCIAL AND ORGANISATIONAL CONTEXTS: CASE STUDIES AND SIMULATIONS
Case studies and simulations are presented when it comes to leading community, criminal, family, civil and commercial, and organisational mediation processes.
ELEMENTS OF EUROPEAN PLANNING
The course offers elements and tools for developing European projects.
EVALUATION OF INTERVENTION EFFECTIVENESS
The course offers elements that make up the methodological basis for evaluating the effectiveness of mediation interventions and projects.
Teaching Methods
The Master’s calendar is divided between lessons in dual mode (remote + in-person lessons, which can be completed remotely only for justified reasons). It promotes highly interactive modes between students and lecturers, both through lectures and individual/group hands-on practice on multiple cases of conflicts/controversies.
Also, the course includes a mandatory 250-hour stage or project work, and the final exam.
The total hours of lesson are 308, with mandatory attendance of at least 70% of the total.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Single course
Theoretical-epistemological references of mediation
The course will offer knowledge and methodological competencies to apply the mediation tool. It provides the acquisition of competencies on the use of the main dialogue operative model methodological tools. It is addressed to those who need to learn an effective way.
Criminal mediation and restorative justice
It provides knowledge on Restorative Justice applications in the criminal framework, with particular reference to mediation tool applications.
The course is addressed to those who wish to know how Restorative Justice changes the conception and intervention on law offences.
Professional profiles and operating contexts
The course offers competencies in defining the role of the mediator in the different mediation applicative fields. The course is addressed to those who need to know the objectives of the mediator role and the skills required to pursue them effectively.
Controversies and conflicts
The course offers competencies on the epistemological analysis of conflicts and controversies, and on how to master the theoretical prerequisites required to mediators to define intervention plans. The course is addressed to those who wish to know how interactions help generate controversies and conflicts.
Operative conflict management tools
The course will offer the operative tools to manage the creation and maintenance of controversies and conflicts. The course is addressed to those who need to have pragmatic tools, indexes and indicators to intervene on controversies and conflicts.
Intervention effectiveness evaluation
The course offers the elements on which the methodological offer to evaluate the effectiveness of mediation intervention and projects is based.
The course is addressed to those dealing with planning and those who need to certify the effectiveness of mediation intervention.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
26/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
7
Maximum available spots:
100
First instalment:
€
									2.436,00
Second instalment:
€
									1.609,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
Will there be an internship?
Yes, there is to be a 250-hour internship in order to develop dispute and conflict mediation skills. Attendance of 100% is compulsory for the internship.
Is any type of financial aid offered?
There are no scholarships for this Master’s.
Is it possible to follow the lessons virtually?
Given the percentage of interactive lessons, it is only possible to attend this Master’s in person.  Distance learning will only be approved in special cases and not on a regular basis. Interaction between students and lecturers is encouraged via lectures as well as individual and group work with various dispute cases. Compulsory attendance of 70% is required, for a total of 308 hours of face-to-face and compulsory lectures.
Does the Master's programme help with job placement?
The Master’s course can be a networking opportunity for many professionals trained as mediators. It is possible to interact with a wide range of professionals while developing skills in collaborating on mediation plans.
Is there a maximum number of absences allowed?
Compulsory attendance of 70% is required.
Classes start:
14/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							4.022,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Gian Piero Turchi
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Gian Piero Turchi
Phone:
0498276633
Email:
gianpiero.turchi@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top