Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/midru-evaluation-and-development-of-human-resources/

Skip to content
Second level university master
MIDRU
Evaluation and development of human resources
Organizational analysis and interventions, risk prevention
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
MIDRU - Evaluation and development of human resources
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
MIDRU - Evaluation and development of human resources
Our
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Evaluation and Development of Human Resources
aims at training professionals in the leadership and management of human resources, so that they have the skills necessary to take action, both with individuals and organizations, in their evaluation and development, in a perspective of organizational efficiency/effectiveness, risk prevention, and the protection of health and safety, in terms of psychological, legal-economic, medical, and ethical-deontological principles.
The individual has in fact a
key role in production and must therefore be the main subject of care
on the part of the organization, so that they feel protected and appreciated. This line of action, together with the most recent European and Italian regulations, determines a more and more complex structure of professional spaces in the field of human resources.
Educational content
Our
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Evaluation and Development of Human Resources
aims at increasing the knowledge and experience acquired during the students’ academic and professional life, while turning them into specific professional competencies which will prove useful on the job for any position involving the leadership, management, and development of human resources, HR departments, evaluation and development, work-related risk prevention, and the protection of health and safety.
Course target and career opportunities
With our
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Evaluation and Development of Human Resources,
students will have the chance to find employment in public, private, productive, and service organizations, as well as profit and nonprofit companies, and hold positions of responsibility within high-profile collaborations, or as freelancers.
Course program
The lessons of our
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Evaluation and Development of Human Resources
are organized according to the following topics:
AREA 1 –
EVALUATION, SELECTION, ORGANIZATIONAL DIAGNOSTICS, RISK PREVENTION AND INTERVENTIONS
Evaluation theory and techniques
Testing theory and techniques and psychometrics
Psychology in the working world
Human resources management in the public administration
Organizational wellness and the evaluation of work-related stress
Organizational and management and control models under Decree Law no. 231/2001
Prevention and intervention for work-related risks
Anti-corruption, digitalization and transparency in the framework of sustainability.
AREA 2 –
training, learning, orientation and professional growth
Training theory and techniques
From group work to teamwork: team management
Theory and application of a learning organization
Diversity management, orientation, and counseling
AREA 3 –
legal and economic aspects of the work organization, guarantee and protection of health
Legal aspects in the organization of work in the private sector
Legal aspects in the organization of work in the public sector
Professional growth and incentive systems
Economic aspects in the organization of work and in the job market
Safety and prevention in the workplace: contents and rules
Industrial relations in theory and in practice
The new logic of HRM: building entrepreneurial skills
Active labor policies and welfare.
Calendar Master MIDRU a.a. 2024-25
OUR PARTNERS
Our Second-level Short Specialisation Degree can rely on the cooperation of the Italian Banking Association (ABI – Associazione Bancaria Italiana), CISL (Centro Studi Ricerca e Formazione), and the Revenue Agency of Veneto (Agenzia delle Entrate del Veneto) for the activation of internships and the participation of teachers.
FACULTY
Among the members of our faculty are:
Giovanni Battista BARTOLUCCI
Laura DAL CORSO
Giancarlo DURANTE
Alessandra FALCO
Roberta MAERAN
Piero MAESTRELLI
Angelo MORETTO
Laura NOTA
Elena PASQUALETTO
Alberto VOCI
SUPPLEMENTARY ACTIVITIES
Frontal and distance learning activities can be implemented by supplementary activities (such as conferences, talks, conventions) proposed by the board and inspired by the specific interests shown by the students.
In the previous editions of the course, the experts who took part in these additional activities particularly focused on these topics:
The new challenges presented by privacy, and personal data processing
A new vision of public administration and business in light of the new NRRP
Evaluation methods for people’s development – interpreting organizational goals for business organizations
Human Social Responsibility: the value of communication
Visual thinking: turn an idea into a project (in support of the preparation of the project work)
Laboratorio LEGO® SERIOUS PLAY®.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Preservation, transmission of culture, and education
End of classes:
18/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
12
Maximum available spots:
40
First instalment:
€
									2.362,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.560,00
Selection process notice
Website
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
How are the lessons organized?
The course includes 216 hours of frontal learning – 84 hours of which will be delivered online (mostly in synchronic learning) – plus 200 hours dedicated to an internship, or a project work.
Minimum attendance is 210 hours. Lessons will take place on Saturdays (once or twice a month). The course also includes two weeks of intensive activity with daily lessons (ideally in the months of February and July). The lessons on site will take place at the University of Padua (in Padua and Bressanone), and/or other facilities in both Padua and Bressanone. The internship can be substituted by an individual project work (200 hours).
Does the course include an internship?
The course includes an internship with a duration of 200 hours. To find the right one for them, students can rely on the help of the board and of the University Career Service, for any aspect respectively concerning the contents of their internship and any administrative and organizational issue.
The internship can be substituted by an individual project work (200 hours).
Are there any incentives?
The University has set up three study awards.
The study awards, dedicated to the memory of Dr. Francesco Oliva, amount to 5,000, 3,000, and 2,000 euros (gross) and are destined to the students presenting the best final reports. The winners will be chosen by a committee chaired by the Director of the course.
Starting from the last academic year (2022/2033), the University also offers a scholarship named after Nicola Alberto De Carlo, founder of the Short Specialization Degree. The value of the scholarship is 5,000 euros.
Is there a minimum attendance?
Yes, minimum attendance is 210 hours (70% of the total amount).
Classes start:
14/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.922,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Laura Dal Corso
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Prof. Laura Dal Corso
Phone:
0498277422
Email:
dalcorso@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top