Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/mign-midwifery-management-of-infections-in-pregnancy-and-management-of-the-newborn/

Skip to content
Post graduate programme
MIGN
Midwifery management of infections in pregnancy and management of the newborn
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
MIGN - Midwifery management of infections in pregnancy and management of the newborn
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
MIGN - Midwifery management of infections in pregnancy and management of the newborn
Our
Course in Midwifery management of infections in pregnancy and management of the newborn
trains gynecologists, infectiologists, pediatricians and professional obstetricians to:
Undertake a correct
diagnostic, clinical and laboratory course
to assess the risks for the patient and her newborn
Verify the
effect
of the diseases contracted during pregnancy on the newborn and the child
Correctly use
preventive and therapeutic pharmacological treatments
for various infective diseases contracted during pregnancy and by newborns and children
Understand the outcome
of neonates born with conatal infections
The Course’s overall goal is to provide students with the skills and knowledge necessary to understand the pathogenic mechanisms that link an infection contracted during conception or in the pre-conceptional period to potential fetal and conatal damage.
The intent is therefore to push our attendees to develop an interdisciplinary approach when dealing with infective complications and actively use it on the job, with positive effects on patient care.
Educational content
The activities offered by our Course in Midwifery management of infections in pregnancy and management of the newborn are centered on the study of the main
infectious pathologies developed during pregnancy
.
The main focus of the course is the multidisciplinary analysis of the most predominant infectious diseases contracted during pregnancy, which can have neonatal and pediatric implications.
The students’ attention will also be directed towards laboratory practices (microbiological studies), infectious serological aspects, diagnostic clinical assessments, eventual ultrasound framework, and the pediatric aspects of the problem.
Lessons will be delivered in dual mode. The course includes frontal lectures dedicated to a theoretical preparation, and practical workshops aimed at the analysis of clinical cases falling under the infectious, gynecological, and pediatric scope (450 hours in total). During the workshops, students will have to solve clinical cases autonomously. The course doesn’t include any patient care activity.
Course target and career opportunities
Our
Course in Midwifery management of infections in pregnancy and management of the newborn
is addressed to:
Gynecologists
Infectiologists
Pediatricians
Obstetricians
Candidates must therefore be in possession of a Bachelor’s or Master’s Degree in Medicine and Surgery.
At the end of the course, students will be able to analyze cases of infection during pregnancy, or in newborns or infants, relating only on the skills developed during the course, interpret blood chemistry tests, grade the severity of the situation, provide the patient or the couple with the overall clinical/therapeutical picture, and lay out possible future outcomes for the newborn/child. These skills will prove useful in hospital settings, as well as in the private sphere.
Course program
Our
Course in Midwifery management of infections in pregnancy and management of the newborn
focuses on the main
infectious pathologies contracted during pregnancy
: toxoplasmosis, cytomegalovirus, syphilis, HIV, streptococcus agalactiae, hepatotropic viruses, herpetic diseases, and intrapartum infections.
Each pathology is addressed through the eventual collaboration with other supporting figures (audiologists, ophthalmologists, neuroradiologists, interns) and analyzed from the point of view of:
Microbiology
Infectiology
Gynecology
Radiology
Ultrasonography
Neonatology
Pediatrics
At the end of the Course, students will be able to provide a holistic view of the problem and its management.
The Course is organized in such a way that students can feel free to ask questions, share personal clinical cases, express clinical doubts and offer solutions.
Our faculty includes professionals who deal with the theoretical and practical aspects of this area of expertise on a daily basis. Their presence gives students the chance to obtain a multifaceted perspective on the subjects dealt with over the lessons and get an insight on the reality of the means and methods available on the job, as well as any possible variant of the diseases.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Course according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
25
First instalment:
€
									334,80
Second instalment:
€
									208,20
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
How are the lessons organized?
Lessons will be delivered online in dual mode via Zoom. Students can follow the lectures live from a distance and in presence.
Does the Course include an internship?
Yes, the Course includes a day of internship at the clinics dedicated to maternal and pediatric infectious diseases.
What will the final exam be like?
The final exam consists of the preparation of a final dissertation about any topic covered over the course of the lessons.
Is attendance mandatory?
Attendance is mandatory for at least 75% of the total amount of the hours dedicated to the lessons (450 hours).
Will I receive any study material to prepare for the lessons?
Yes, once the Course has started, students will have access to a Moodle platform where they can find the study material used by teachers.
Classes start:
25/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
19
Teaching method:
Dual-mode
Total enrolment fee:
€
							520,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Erich Cosmi
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Sara Pozzato
Phone:
0498217615
Email:
sara.pozzato@unipd.it
Alternative contact
Contact Person:
Deputy Director - Dott.ssa Silvia Visentin
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top