Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/moim-open-innovation-management/

Skip to content
First level university master
MOIM
Open innovation management
processes, products and business models
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
MOIM - Open innovation management
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
MOIM - Open innovation management
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Open Innovation Management
provides competences to implement Open Innovation processes for companies and public/private institutions, from the
idea to the implementation
of an entrepreneurial start-up or (re)start-up project, and the
definition of the reference network
. Particular attention will be devoted to the topics of
digital transformation
and
environmental/social sustainability
. The Master arises from the long innovation generation tradition of the University of Padua, which boasts several awards, and is one of the forerunners in implementing
technology transfer
and
Third-Mission
activity processes.
The First-level Short Specialisation Degree, now in its third edition, renews itself, by suggesting an educational project developed in two specializations to choose from:
Innovation in the industrial sector
Innovation for Public Administrations and Smart Cities
The interdisciplinary educational model entails
the alternation of seminar lectures,
professional testimonials and hands-on-experimental activities.
“Thinking is easy, acting is difficult, and to put one’s thoughts into action is the most difficult thing in the world,” Goethe.
Educational content
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Open Innovation Management
provides full-range training on innovation-related topics, by putting together
professionals, entrepreneurs, professors and researchers
, and providing in-depth knowledge on the following topics:
Management;
Science, technology (and emerging technologies in particular) and sustainability;
Marketing and communication;
Network building and maintenance;
Design and art;
Design thinking;
Legal aspects;
Funding;
EU project management.
During the lessons,
theoretical insights
are interspersed with
hands-on practice, project works
and digital conversations with
high-profile testimonials
, which the students can complete both in-person or through the e-learning platforms of the University of Padua.
Course target and career opportunities
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Open Innovation Management
is addressed to professional, entrepreneurs and
CEO, covering executive roles in the areas of governance, management, planning, strategy, ICT, logistics, communication and marketing, innovation and development, sustainability and corporate social responsibility, as well as young newly-graduates who wish to work in those fields.
The Master provides training for several key roles, within enterprises and private institutions, companies and public bodies and no-profit associations, or as external consultants:
“INNOVATION IN THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR” SPECIALIZATION
Research & Development Office Manager;
Digital Transformation Process Manager;
Open Innovation Manager;
Corporate Strategy Innovation Manager;
Communication & Marketing Development Manager;
Business Development Manager;
CEO or Top Manager with a strong propensity toward innovation and sustainability.
“INNOVATION FOR PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS AND SMART CITIES” SPECIALIZATION
Manager capable of supporting/leading PA toward planning sustainable territorial development policies, focused on the improvement of the overall well-being, through highly innovative methods and tools.
Program
The theoretical framework of the First-level Short Specialisation Degree in
Open Innovation Management
draws on technological innovation, strategical innovation, cultural research in art, design literature, sociology, market trends, and the application of technology transfer, knowledge transfer and design thinking methods.
The course includes both
cross-curricular lessons
, shared by both specializations, and dedicated
specialist lessons
. Both specializations include hands-on and test portions, dedicated to the development of a project work, and partially guided by a multidisciplinary mentor team and on-field activities.
CROSS-CURRICULAR LESSONS
Open Innovation – Ecosystems
Open Innovation – Genesis, management tools, processes
Culture of innovation
Innovation and society
Business models
Business plans
Introduction to Design Thinking methods
Tools and methods to CREATE innovation
Digital Transformation
Virtual reality, augmented reality, immersive innovation technologies (immersive experience with VR visors)
Communicating innovation
AI, GDPR and Big Data
“INNOVATION IN THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR” SPECIALIZATION
Open Innovation – Business models
Circular economy as a tool to create value and innovation
IP Rights and Open Innovation
Advanced planning – Collaborative and Open Innovation projects in Horizon Europe Digital Transformation
Digital experience & marketing
Data enhancement and definition of legal relationships in new online business models
Fundamentals of security and privacy in modern and future technology and innovation communication
Jazz & management
“INNOVATION FOR PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS AND SMART CITIES” SPECIALIZATION
Ecosystems and relationships in territorial development
Zero-waste cities – Sustainable development models
ICT strategies and digital agenda
Urban innovation and social inclusion
Urban energy transition systems
Public-private partnerships and crowdsourcing for PA
Smart cities and big data – Legal aspects
Smart cities and digital transformation
What is open innovation?
It is a strategy opposed to the closed innovation model, guided by the R&D division of enterprises or institutions. It broadens the range of innovation sources, by drawing from both internal and external resources, exceeding organizational boundaries, and including a network of partners, clients, opinion leaders, suppliers, universities and incubators in the innovation process.
The steps to start an Open Innovation process include:
Finding innovative ideas and potential partners;
Promoting the creation of an internal culture of innovation and entrepreneurial attitude;
Acquiring strategic competences to start digital transformation and sustainability processes – the so-called
green and blue transformations
;
Starting Open Innovation processes;
Mastering processes and being able to launch Corporate VC and Corporate Accelerator initiatives.
When implementing Open Innovation, it is essential to prevent two recurring risks:
the
theatre of innovation
, i.e. launching a digital transformation strategy, without supporting it through a sufficient budget;
the
leap of faith
, i.e. tapping into an allocated budget, without assessing the availability of the skills required to apply the right innovation strategy, or without developing a suitable organizational culture.
PREVIOUS EDITIONS
The
first edition
of the MOIM Master highlighted the need to
CREATE innovation in the Italian territory, by working in a synergistic way
, expanding the creative action within the cultural, economic and social context of reference enterprises and professional businesses. During the entire year, there were many opportunities to interface with the professors, managers and entrepreneurs who co-organized the course. There were also numerous immersive occasions and prestigious lecturers, such as the TEDx Padova convention, SMACT Digital Transformation Training, virtual reality hands-on activities, lessons held in partnership with PwC, and the launch of SMACT Live Demo in Padua.
The
second edition
and
third edition
confirmed the enthusiasm and interest on the educational content and methods, with a significant increase of students enrolled and corporate partnerships.
This helped us to create a reference
Community
, involving enlightened entrepreneurs, researchers, professors, opinion leaders and Master students, who gathered especially during the “Dîner-débat”, prestigious networking and comparison dinners, on stimuli offered by selected lecturers, in the amazing setting of Palazzo Sambonifacio, in the heart of Padua.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2023/24 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Single course
Circular economy as value and innovation creating tool
Do you want to apply the principles of circular economy to your business?
Circular economy is the new economic paradigm that provides great opportunities for innovation. In order to be implemented, it requires the development of a new approach to product development and to collaboration within the supply chain (customers, suppliers, distributors). The module presents strategies and practices to manage open innovation processes in a circular economy paradigm; how to select and manage supplier relations consistent with a “circular” product and processes; methods to organize relations with university and research and with customers and consumers.
Professor
: Eleonora Di Maria
Selection notice single Master’s courses
Innovation and society
The goal of this module is shedding some light on the citizen participation requirements to local open government initiatives (Open government for Social Innovation), and analyse the motivational drivers for citizen participation quantity.
Professor
: Massimiano Bucchi
Selection notice single Master’s courses
A culture of innovation. Experimental workshop for entrepreneur-able ideas
Once we are exposed to digital technologies, we realize that technology in itself is not enough, and we can only do so much alone. The course involves the attendees in an experimental learning process that combines entrepreneurship and innovation and art.
Professor
: Piero Formica
Selection notice single Master’s courses
Open innovation: genesis, management tools, processes
Want to discover the potential of Open Innovation?
The design and implementation of Open Innovation processes has different dynamics that traditional R&D processes. To tackle this challenge, you need specific knowledge and competencies. The module will provide an introductory overview on the concept of Open Innovation, the internal and external managerial and financial tools it needs, through theoretical references, examples and best practices.
Professor:
Fabrizio Dughiero
Selection notice single Master’s courses
Open innovation: business models
Is your company business ready to tackle Open Innovation?
Currently, companies and professionals do not benefit from Open Innovation in the same way. One of the possible causes is the unsuitability of their business models. This module offers an overview of the opportunities and critical issues concerning the Open Innovation promotion governance. It will analyse crowdsourcing, open source strategies and collaborative platforms.
Professor:
Silvia Rita Sedita
Selection notice single Master’s courses
Advanced design - collaborative and open innovation projects in Horizon Europe
Do you know how to intercept and use the funding opportunities offered by the European Committee in the best way possible?
The goal of this module is providing the tools and knowledge to develop the competencies and project skills and gain access to direct funding by the European Committee, to start collaborative research and innovation projects with the Horizon Europe framework. It will explain how to select the most suitable call to your Open Innovation needs, and how to organize the funding request, through examples and best practises.
Professor
: Ing. Stefano Carosio
Selection notice single Master’s courses
Information
Thematic area:
Scientific innovation
End of classes:
26/09/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
12
Maximum available spots:
40
First instalment:
€
									3.622,50
Second instalment:
€
									2.400,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
Venue
The MOIM Master’s in-person lectures will be held at the conference room of Intesa Sanpaolo S.p.A. – Business Branch – Via Trieste, 57/59, 35121 Padua – (Eighth Floor). A perfect place to MAKEinnovation in an Open Innovation perspective!
Other venues or guided tours to places of interest may also be considered in relation to specific educational activities.
How is the course organised?
The First-level Short Specialisation Degree’s program has 70% compulsory attendance and is designed to be easily attended even by working professionals.
Classes will be held with an indicative frequency of 2 weekends per month, in dual synchronous and asynchronous mode and with innovative methodologies such as some lessons in Flipped Classroom or others will use Virtual and Augmented Reality Visors.
Class recordings will be available for enrollees on the course’s digital platformLinkedin page
DOES THE MASTER MOIM HAVE A SOCIAL PAGE WHERE YOU CAN READ NEWS AND UPDATES?
https://www.linkedin.com/company/moimpadova/
Classes start:
14/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Intesa Sanpaolo S.p.A. – Filiale Imprese – Via Trieste, 57/59, 35121 Padova  PD– Ottavo Piano
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							6.022,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2025
Pre-registration is currently not available
Management
Prof. Fabrizio Dughiero
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
UniSMART Fondazione Università di Padova
Phone:
335 1727173
Email:
formazione@unismart.it
Alternative contact
Contact Person:
Dott.ssa Maddalena Mometti - Coordinatrice della Didattica e Responsabile Comunicazione Master MOIM
Email:
maddalena.mometti@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top