Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/mr-rep-reparative-medicine-for-male-reproductive-health/

Skip to content
Advanced training course
MR.REP
Reparative medicine for male reproductive health
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Advanced training course
>
MR.REP - Reparative medicine for male reproductive health
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Advanced training course
>
MR.REP - Reparative medicine for male reproductive health
The course offers training in the biological and medical fields both on laboratory and on instrumental diagnostics in reproductive andrology and on the treatment of the causes of male infertility, aimed at restoring reproductive health in the infertile patient. It also provides expertise in the prevention of reproductive tract diseases and sexually transmitted infections. The topics covered by the course will be addressed from a diagnostic, therapeutic and follow-up point of view. The final aim of the course is the acquisition of autonomous management skills with specific skills dedicated to each professional figure: the medical doctors will deal with the clinical aspects of all the topics covered; biologists and biotechnologists will receive specific training regarding the execution of diagnostic tests in the andrological laboratory.
Educational content
The course includes 12 hours of e-learning, 10 hours of frontal lessons, 10 hours of laboratory and 25 hours of internship. The online remote meetings will be organized in four meetings of 3 hours each. The face-to-face meetings (lessons, workshops and internships) will be divided into two moments, the first moment foreseeing the attendance of an entire working week, the second moment instead foreseeing the completion of the lessons for a Friday afternoon and Saturday morning.
Course target and career opportunities
The course trains professionals with clinical-diagnostic and biological experience in reproductive andrology and reproductive medicine, with particular attention to the diagnostic-therapeutic workflow of couple infertility, aimed at restoring natural fertility, on the basis of different medical (endocrinology, urology, gynecology) and biological (biology, biotechnology) specializations involved in this area. At the end of the course, the acquired skills will allow to carry out laboratory, clinical, assistance and research activities in public and private structures that deal with Reproductive Medicine, Andrology, Urology and Endocrinology.
Course program
Diagnostic evaluation of the infertile patients
The patient’s diagnostic flow-chw-chart for male infertility will be discussed, and in details: anamnesis and physical examination, hormonal evaluation, clinical interpretation of seminal parameters and microbiological diagnostics.
Ultrasound diagnostics for male infertility
The aspects of normal ultrasound anatomy of the testis, the epididymis and of the accessory sexual glands will be analyzed. It the ultrasound alterations reported in infertile patients will be described and in details, the role of ultrasound in the diagnostics of patients with primitive testicular or with obstructive/sub -obstructive diseases of the male reproductive tract and with male accessory gland inflammation.
Infertility treatment
The teaching will be aimed at providing the basics of medical and surgical treatment of the infertile patient, including hormonal treatments (e.g. with gonadotropins), the treatment of subobstructive forms secondary to inflammatory disease, the treatment of varicocele and the surgical treatment of obstructive diseases, the evidence-based use of nutraceuticals in the treatment of male infertility.
The teaching will be carried out to deepen the I and II level seminal diagnostics (including in particular the study 12 of anti-sperm antibodies, the study of DNA fragmentation and sperm aneuploidies). The modality of analysis of testicular cytology by fine needle aspiration will also be described. Finally, the aspects concerning the genetic diagnosis of male infertility will be analyzed.
Partnership
The Course is characterized by the partnership with Cátedra Internacional de Bioética Jérôme Lejeune – Fundación Jérôme Lejeune España.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/07/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
25
Single instalment:
€
									572,50
Selection process notice
Website
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
Is attendance compulsory?
Yes, a compulsory attendance of at least 70% is required
Is face-to-face attendance necessary?
The course includes 12 hours of distance learning, 10 hours of frontal lessons, 10 hours of laboratory and 25 hours of internship. Face-to-face meetings (lessons, workshops and internships) will be divided into two moments: the first moment involves attending an entire working week, the second moment instead involves completing lessons on a Friday afternoon and Saturday morning. Physical presence is required for face-to-face lessons and internships unless current regulations require remote attendance.
Will it be possible to attend the facility's clinics and laboratories?
All the laboratories and clinics of the host structure will welcome students during the week scheduled for the internship. It will also be possible to attend, at the request of the students, the clinics and workers for further periods, subject to agreements with the Director and the Organizational Secretariat with at least 15 days notice.
Will it be possible to do assistance during the internships?
The clinical and laboratory activities foreseen for the students are exclusively of an observational nature. However, during the internships it will be possible to provide moments of direct activity on laboratory samples.
How are the lessons organised?
These are interactive collegial lessons during which it will be possible to discuss each topic both during its presentation and during the moments scheduled for discussion. Since convivial moments are foreseen (coffee breaks, working lunches and dinners) which will involve both learners and teachers, these spaces can be partly dedicated to deepening particular themes and forging new collaborations.
Classes start:
15/03/2025
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
English
ECTS:
10
Teaching method:
Dual-mode
Total enrolment fee:
€
							520,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
04/03/2025
pre-enroll
Management
Prof. Alberto Ferlin
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Dott. Marco Ferigo
Phone:
0498216351
Email:
marco.ferigo@unipd.it
Alternative contact
Contact Person:
Dott. Giuseppe Grande
Phone:
0498212723
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top