Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/mtds-data-science-data-management/

Skip to content
First level university master
MTDS
Data Science & Data Management
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
MTDS - Data Science & Data Management
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
MTDS - Data Science & Data Management
The Master joins the second extraordinary pre-enrolment term from the 4th to the 25th November 2024, 12.30 pm.
The
First-Level Short Specialisation Degree
in Data Science & Data Management
provides training on the methods and tools to use text data – strategically important in the current historical phase. In this view, their collection, analysis, assessment and management represent the competences to define which and what type of knowledge should be extrapolated from text data, so as to operate in the different corporate-organizational, healthcare, political-economic, economic-political, legal, community and public policy sectors.
The goal of the Master is to
build a Data Scientist & Data Analyst profile
, capable of analysing the different human needs (historically and narratively speaking), anticipating future scenarios, defining strategies, innovating and supporting decision-making processes, monitoring and assessing project effectiveness.
Educational content
The
First-Level Short Specialisation Degree
in Data Science & Data Management
provides training on theoretical language models; maths-statistical fundamentals for data science; data management; data management and analysis systems; machine learning & IA; big data analytics; data visualization & curation.
The course provides three kinds of contents:
Knowledge on:
theoretical-methodological references to language studies;
data science models and tools;
data analysis & data management.
Applicative competences to:
data analysis for target detection and need anticipation, future scenario anticipation, strategy definition, innovation, decision-making processes;
applications in corporate-organizational, healthcare, political-economic and economic-political, legal, community, and public policy sectors;
M.A.D.I.T. method and statistical-experimental analysis plan construction methods;
mastering of statistical-maths fundamentals;
machine learning & IA, big data analytics, data visualization, data curation, data management.
Independent judgement to promote:
analysis of critical aspects concerning data privacy, data protection and data ethics;
social and ethical liability management;
data management error analysis and anticipations;
innovation.
Course target and career opportunities
The
First-Level Short Specialisation Degree
in Data Science & Data Management
is addressed to graduates with a Bachelor’s Degree in Economics, Engineering, Computer Sciences, Statistics, Mathematics, Psychology, Biology, Sociological Sciences, Communication, Philosophy, Government and Public Policy Sciences, European and Global Studies, Local Development, Law and Technology, Linguistics, Social Services (only for those with a Master’s Degree).
After concluding the
First-Level Short Specialisation Degree
, future Data Scientists & Data Analysts can
work for public and private institutions
with a large quantity of text data, such as government agencies, universities, research institutions, medium-large corporate research centres, mass media, PA institutions and bodies, European planning institutions, banks and foundations, insurance companies, trade and sales chains (large scale distribution trade), consultancy firms.
The
First-Level Short Specialisation Degree
prepares Data Scientists and Data Analysts
in several application fields
: marketing, corporate-organizational, political-economic and economic-political, healthcare public policies, legal and communitarian.
Course program
The
First-Level Short Specialisation Degree
in Data Science & Data Management
provides in-depth training on the following modules:
Module 1 –
Knowledge-based and data-driven analysis
Formalization of language interactions
Language analysis theories and models
Epistemological foundations behind the reference scientific paradigm for the generation of observational data, and reflections on the available approaches (behaviourism, innatism, interactionism, neural network, NLP, linguistics, DPA, etc.)
Module 2 – Data privacy, data protection and data ethics
Role profile and competences of a Data Scientist and Data Analyst
Knowledge on ethical questions, privacy law and data protection references, and Data Scientist/Data Analyst role and competences
Module 3 – Text data analysis methods
Promotion of competences to use the M.A.D.I.T. Method, to design with specific analysis goals, and to use a statistical-experimental method to build rigorous and effective analysis plans
Module 4 – Advanced Statistics for Data Science &amp; Machine Learning
– Databases (data collection, data quality, NoSQL vs SQL databases, DBSM and DWH J);
– Data management and analysis systems:
– Big Data Analytics &amp; Real Time Big Data Processing;
– Development of knowledge/skills related to AI and Machine Learning;
– Development of knowledge/skills in the use of the underlying mathematical-statistical foundations o Data Science and data management and analysis systems (Python, Orange, Tableau, Google Analytics).
Module 5 – Data Visualization, Data Curation & Data Management Technology
Knowledge of the main tools for representation and visualization effective use of textual data and to raise awareness of the main tools supporting the Data
Curation.
Module 6 – Dialogic Data Business Management
Development of knowledge related to dialogic business process management and communication models management of textual data.
Module 7 – Dialogic Data Strategy & Decision Making and error analysis to generate innovation and change
Development of skills in using textual data to define strategies and take action decision and to develop error analysis skills to bring about innovation
Module 8 – Applications in Data Intelligence and Marketing
Social media applications
Legal administration applications
Healthcare system applications
Community applications
Sustainability applications
Workshops to develop project/analysis plans/consideration on text data use in relation to specific analysis goals
COURSE’S PECULIARITIES
The
First-Level Short Specialisation Degree
’s peculiarities include:
integration between
computer science, statistics, and language use observations, including dialogic
applications of knowledge and competences to several fields
: in corporate-organizational, healthcare, political-economic and economic-political, legal, community, and public policy
promoting the increase
of an
effective, efficient and rigorous management
of text data generation, thanks to the interaction between the disciplines mentioned above, which allow changing the way we recognize and analyse text data, and therefore to intervene with respect to multiple critical issues found today in analysis (extrapolating knowledge from a large quantity of data; not knowing which data to select; not knowing how to use data for specific goals, etc.)
Future Data Scientists & Data Analysts can develop broad competences in the observation and gathering of text data, and in the implementation of IT and statistical tools to analyse them.
Admission and teaching mode
The
First-Level Short Specialisation Degree
in Data Science & Data Management
includes in-person (mainly) and remote
lessons
, and promotes the interaction between professors and students, through lectures, individual
practice
and workshops on multiple application cases. The course includes a mandatory 250-hour
traineeship
/project work and a final exam. A mandatory
attendance
of 70% of the total hours (300) is required.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this
First-Level Short Specialisation Degree
according to the timing provided in the Call.
Single course
Theoretical-epistemological fundamentals: Formalization of language interactions
The purpose of this module is to help students master the scientific formalization of human interactions occurring through the use of language, and how the cognitive process of Dialogic Sciences allows having textual data.
Role profile and competences of a Data Scientist and Data Analyst
The purpose of this module is outlining the roles, competences and interactions between Data Scientist and Data Analyst. It will focus on the goals of those two professional profiles, their competences, and how they interact to manage the data generation process.
M.A.D.I.T. methodology for text data analysis
The purpose of this module is mastering the M.A.D.I.T. methodology to create projects based on specific text data analysis goals (e.g. descriptive analysis of target needs, anticipation of future needs and scenarios, definition of strategies, decision-making processes, innovation, etc.).
Methodology to build a statistical-experimental analysis plan on text data
The purpose of this module is mastering a statistical-experimental method to create rigorous and effective analysis plans (hypothesis development, strategic data collection, processing of considerations and new demands, suitable choice of statistical instruments, etc.).
Advanced statistics for data science
The purpose of this class is developing knowledge and use competences on maths/statistical fundamentals behind Data Science (differential and integral calculus, linear algebra, probability theory, data distribution and analysis models, hypothesis verification, regression analysis, etc.).
Data management and analysis data
The purpose of this module is developing knowledge and competences in using the most common data management and analysis systems, with focus on their features (R, Python, PowerBI, Tableau, Google Analytics, SAS etc.).
Machine Learning, AI and Data Science Algorithms
The purpose of this module is developing knowledge and skills on the AI (state of the art and data/information processing; techniques, tools and systems based on the AI) and Machine Learning (algorithms, model selection, deep learning etc.) so that students are able to analyse data and extract knowledge from them.
Big Data Analytics & Real Time Big Data Processing
The purpose of this module is offering state-of-the-art knowledge on Big Data Analytics & Real Time Big Data Processing, and to promote reflections on the biggest issues and strategies linked to the extraction of knowledge, before a large quantity of data.
Data Management - Text data generation process management
The purpose of this module is developing knowledge based on business process management and data management models (data collection, data quality, database NoSQL vs SQL, DBSM and DWH J) and develop competences in text data generation analysis.
Data Management - Error analysis to generate innovation and change
The purpose of this module is to develop knowledge and competences in analysing errors in the text data generation process, and on how to use it to make changes, innovation and new strategies in intervention contexts.
Data Management: Data Strategy & Decision Making
The purpose of this module is to summarise the notions learned in the other lessons, to increase the competence in using text data for specific tasks, including strategy definition and decision-making processes, starting from the text data collected.
Applications in the Data Intelligence and Marketing fields - Customer text analysis
Workshops to develop projects/analysis plans/considerations on the use of Customers’ texts, based on specific analysis objectives (e.g. need analysis, anticipation of future needs and scenarios, strategy definition, innovation, decision-making process, etc.).
Social media applications - Persuasiveness text analysis and community emergency management
Workshops to develop projects/analysis plans/considerations on the use of ‘persuasive’ texts and texts during community emergencies based on specific analysis objectives (e.g. need analysis, anticipation of future needs and scenarios, strategy definition, innovation, decision-making process, etc.
Legal administration applications - Controversies and dispute management text analysis
Workshops to develop projects/analysis plans/considerations on the use of ‘controversy’ and ‘dispute’ text analysis, based on specific analysis objectives (e.g. need analysis, anticipation of future needs and scenarios, strategy definition, innovation, decision-making process, etc.
Healthcare system applications - Health configuration text analysis
Workshops to develop projects/analysis plans/considerations on the use of ‘Health’ promotion texts, based on specific analysis objectives (e.g. need analysis, anticipation of future needs and scenarios, strategy definition, innovation, decision-making process, etc.
Information
Thematic area:
Scientific innovation
End of classes:
29/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
6
Maximum available spots:
100
First instalment:
€
									3.322,50
Second instalment:
€
									2.200,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
Will there be a traineeship/stage?
Yes, there will be a 250-hour traineeship to observe and develop text data analysis skills in relevant institutions.
Will there be any forms of facilitation?
The
First-Level Short Specialisation Degree
does not provide any forms of facilitation. You can check whether you have the requirements to request a scholarship to the University of Padua.
Can I follow the course online?
The Course include part of the lessons in person, and part of them online. For specific needs, refer to the course’s Director.
Will the coursehelp me find a job?
The
First-Level Short Specialisation Degree
collaborates with a network of enterprises and professionals and helps students to interface with the institutions they would like to work for.
Classes start:
25/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							5.521,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Gian Piero Turchi
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Gian Piero Turchi
Phone:
049 8276633
Email:
gianpiero.turchi@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top