Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/mtea-transplant-medicine-and-advanced-hepatology/

Skip to content
Second level university master
MTEA
Transplant Medicine and Advanced Hepatology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
MTEA - Transplant Medicine and Advanced Hepatology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
MTEA - Transplant Medicine and Advanced Hepatology
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Transplant Medicine and Advanced Hepatology
focuses on liver transplant and organ (kidney/liver) failure management.
Given the growing clinical relevance of hepatocellular carcinoma and chronic liver diseases, sarcopenia and fragility, and of the advanced management of portal hypertension. It also includes a major in
Advanced Hepatology
, with focus on the aforementioned topics.
The purpose of the Master is to provide, through a specific academic course, the corpus of knowledge related to
organ transplant medicine
and a few fundamental
specific competences
, such as managing patients with organ failure, knowledge of transplant indications and counter-indications, management of immunosuppressive treatment and after-transplant complications.
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
is inter-University
, and it involves the University of Padua and the University of Milan Bicocca.
Educational content
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Transplant Medicine and Advanced Hepatology
provides advanced competences
on clinical management
of liver or multi-organ insufficiency, who are candidates, waiting for or underwent a transplant; independent
identification
of the best
therapeutic approach
to adopt for patients with organ failure, who are candidates for and/or who underwent a transplant;
planning of diagnostic/therapeutic plans
in patients suffering from acute and chronic organ and liver failure,
in relation to the multidisciplinary team
involved.
The Master courses develop through lesson cycles concentrated in short, continuation periods, previously agreed with professors and students, including attendance of clinics and units to collect data and clinical cases subject matter of the course.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Transplant Medicine and Advanced Hepatology
trains high-level professional figures, who can implement all the main competences of diagnostic classification and clinical/therapeutic management of the main onsets of acute, acute on chronic, and chronic organ and liver failure, and for patients candidate for or who underwent liver transplant.
Course program
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Transplant Medicine and Advanced Hepatology
provides training on:
Logical-organizational aspects of organ transplant
: donation, law, allocation criteria, priority, ethical and medical-legal aspects.
Knowledge of the law and regulations
concerning the donation, collection, allocation criteria; exploration of the ethical and medical-legal aspects of transplants.
Elements of immunodepressive therapy
: diagrams, complications, pharmacological interactions, typing, tolerance, transplant physiopathological aspects, physiopathological knowledge and applicative capacity of transplant immunology principles.
Surgical techniques of organ transplants and preservation/conditioning method
:
knowledge of the different preservation/conditioning methods, basic surgical techniques for solid organ transplants, and advanced surgical methods.
Indications and counter-indications
: patient selection, checklists, prognostic indexes in liver and multi-organ transplants, knowledge of solid organ diseases and their clinical indications to assess a transplant, application for prognostic, selection and individuation criteria in solid organ transplant.
Waiting list management
: priority, management of patients for liver diseases, knowledge of terminal liver disease, and waiting list pending the optimization of the transplant outcome.
Intervention aspects and intervention radiology:
knowledge of the intervention and intervention radiology methods to manage patients before and after a solid organ transplant.
Short and long-term transplant complications
: managing rejection, pathological anatomy,
knowledge of medical and surgical complications in organ transplants and their management, diagnosis and management of organ rejection, fundamentals of transplant histopathology.
Disease recurrence, re-transplant, future of organ transplants
: knowledge of basic disease recurrence mechanism, prevention, diagnosis and treatment, new perspectives concerning technologies and innovation for transplants.
TRANSPLANT MEDICINE
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
has been designed to expand the knowledge on transplant medicine, which is currently an extremely relevant topic in the medical field. This topic involves several disciplines: Hepatology, Gastroenterology, Surgery.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
75%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
20
Single instalment:
€
									4.022,50
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
Classes start:
11/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							4.022,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Patrizia Burra
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Giovanna Di Turi
Phone:
049 8212891
Email:
didattica.discog@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top