Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/mvte-vascular-medicine-and-thrombotic-haemorrhagic-diseases/

Skip to content
Second level university master
MVTE
Vascular medicine and thrombotic-haemorrhagic diseases
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
MVTE - Vascular medicine and thrombotic-haemorrhagic diseases
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
MVTE - Vascular medicine and thrombotic-haemorrhagic diseases
The
Second-level short specialisation degree
in Vascular Medicine and Thrombotic-Haemorrhagic Diseases
wants to sharpen the clinical knowledge on vascular pathologies and thrombotic-haemorrhagic diseases.
The Course explores an updated revision of the scientific notions and care paths concerning pathophysiology, diagnosis and care for vascular diseases (arterial and venous) and hereditary and acquired thrombotic-haemorrhagic diseases.
The Short specialisation degree trains professional figures such as doctors in the field of
arterial, venous vascular and lymphatic system medicine
, and expert in managing the main hereditary and acquired thrombophilia and haemorrhagic coagulopathies.
Educational content
The
Second-level short specialisation degree in Vascular Medicine and Thrombotic-Haemorrhagic Diseases
trains in the field of
arterial, venous vascular and lymphatic system medicine
, and expert in managing the main hereditary and acquired thrombophilia and haemorrhagic coagulopathies. Attendees will be able to perform non-invasive vascular visits and diagnostic examinations, prescribe and interpret lab exams to diagnose haemostasis disorders, prescribe appropriate treatment plans, coordinate nursing staff that cares for vascular and thrombotic-haemorrhagic diseases, start and manage appropriate primary, secondary and tertiary prevention plans.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Second-level short specialisation degree
in Vascular Medicine and Thrombotic-Haemorrhagic Diseases
is addressed to licensed Medicine and Surgery graduates. Preferential requisites include specialization in internal medicine, geriatrics, angiology, haematology, cardiology, and cardio-vascular diseases.
The Short specialisation degree trains professionals who can be employed in national private and public healthcare facilities, with particular reference to the provision of highly autonomous health-related activities in
medical management
and affiliated clinical specializations, in the different regional healthcare services.
Course program
The
Second-level short specialisation degree
in Vascular Medicine and Thrombotic-Haemorrhagic Diseases
provides training on:
Physiopathology of haemostasis and epidemiology of thrombotic-haemorrhagic diseases
Physiopathology of circulation and microcirculation
Vascular pathological anatomy
Venous system diagnostics
Arterial system diagnostics
Vascular and interventional radiology
Epidemiology, diagnosis and treatment of venous thrombosis in unusual locations
Vascular cerebral diseases
Diagnostics and interventional radiology of vascular cerebral diseases
Venous thromboembolic disease management
Hereditary thrombophilia
Acquired thrombophilia
Hereditary haemorrhagic diseases
Acquired haemorrhagic diseases and acute bleeding management
Medical treatment of arterial vascular diseases
Vascular surgery 1
Vascular surgery 2
Venous thromboembolism in cancer patients
Epidemiology in vascular and metabolic diseases – risk factors
Etiology, diagnosis and treatment of splanchnic thrombosis – coagulopathy in cirrhosis
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Second-level short specialisation degree according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
25
First instalment:
€
									1.822,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.200,00
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
How will the course take place?
The course comprises in-person
lessons
that will be held at the University Hospital of Padua, divided into 3 intensive weeks, from Monday to Friday, during the year (mid-December 2024 – end of February 2025 – mid-September 2025) and a
traineeship
period under the supervision of a tutor, for 4 non-continual weeks.
Attendance periods at the Short specialisation degree’s clinical facilities will also be included, with methods agreed with the professors and students, in order to promote a homogeneous and regular course.
Attendees will also take part in periodical
seminars
and meetings with discussion of clinical cases.
The Short specialisation degree entails a mandatory attendance of at least 70% of the lessons and traineeship. There will also be a
final exam
, for all the modules, consisting in the discussion of a dissertation.
During the pandemic emergency, the course has provided distance learning, and then dual learning methods. In the future, the University’s instructions will be observed.
Where will the traineeship take place?
Students can complete their traineeship in several affiliated facilities:
Hospital University of Padua
ULSS no. 2 – Marca Trevigiana
ULSS no. 1 – Dolomiti
Does the course provide training credits?
At the end of the Short specialisation degree, and after passing the final exam (discussion of a dissertation), attendees will receive 60 CFU. A minimum mandatory attendance of 70%, between lessons and traineeship, is required.
Will there be any intermediate exams?
There will only be a final exam, including all the modules.
Will a certification/diploma be released?
At the end of the course, a Second-level short specialisation degree Diploma will be issued. Awarding of the title is consequent to the acquisition of the credits indicated in the selection call, including those related to the final exam.
Classes start:
09/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.022,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Paolo Simioni
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Sabrina Billato - Valentina Pettenuzzo
Phone:
0498217956
Email:
sabrina.billato@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top