Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/nopc-nursing-clinical-research-and-artificial-intelligence-in-oncology-and-palliative-care/

Skip to content
First level university master
NOPC
Nursing, Clinical Research, and Artificial Intelligence in Oncology and Palliative Care
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
NOPC - Nursing, Clinical Research, and Artificial Intelligence in Oncology and Palliative Care
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
NOPC - Nursing, Clinical Research, and Artificial Intelligence in Oncology and Palliative Care
The Master joins the second extraordinary pre-enrolment term from the 4th to the 25th November 2024, 12.30 pm.
The
Master in Nursing Care, Clinical Research and Artificial Intelligence in Oncology and Palliative Care
prepares students in the acquisition of updated clinical skills, supported by scientific evidence, and of practical and theoretical insights on how to care for oncology patients and their caregivers.
Formative content
The
Master in Nursing Care, Clinical Research and Artificial Intelligence in Oncology and Palliative Care
covers three areas:
Clinic and organization
Clinical research, epidemiology and artificial intelligence
Case management and care management
To provide the most specific and up-to-date skills on care in oncologic and palliative care contexts.
Beneficiaries and employment opportunities
The
Master in Nursing Care, Clinical Research and Artificial Intelligence in Oncology and Palliative Care
trains professional figures capable of taking care of patients globally, managing their care and support paths, supporting the multuiprofessional and multidisciplinary team and the family, both in hospitals and on the territory, in an oncologic context.
Programme
The
Master in Nursing Care, Clinical Research and Artificial Intelligence in Oncology and Palliative Care
provides specific training on the following topics:
CLINIC AND ORGANIZATION
Clinical fundamentals of oncology and oncohaematology and related diseases, general principles of pathology, physiopathology, oncological genetics, chemotherapeutic and radiotherapeutic treatment, biological therapies and immunotherapy, nursing care to oncology patients, emergency assessment and management, pain management.
Surgical fundamentals of oncological diseases, general principles of specialist oncological surgery, nursing care to oncological surgery patients, management of patients with stoma.
Support therapy to oncological patients, nutrition support, support to vascular access carriers, support relation in oncology, therapeutic education principles and techniques.
Clinical nursing in oncology and palliative care, general palliative and simultaneous care concepts in hospitals and hospices, care path management, multidisciplinary nursing care approach in palliative care.
Quality and patient safety in oncology, reference framework, clinical risk management and prevention, infections related to oncology and oncohaematology care.
Paediatric oncohaematology, patient specifics in the different care settings, paediatric palliative care, paediatric home care.
CLINICAL RESEARCH, EPIDEMIOLOGY AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
Professional responsibility in oncology and end-of-life care, applied nursing research, legal aspects and healthcare responsibility, ethical-deontological aspects, general nursing care principles in clinical trials, statistic and epidemiology instruments and basics in oncology.
Clinical research, planning, implementation and application of care processes, through bibliographic research and review of scientific evidence, use and application of guidelines, primary and secondary scientific production, from project design to implementation.
AI applications, generative AI, Machine Learning techniques for analysis, from text mining to the processing of previsual models, supervision of adverse events and unwanted effects.
CASE MANAGEMENT AND CARE MANAGEMENT
Home nursing care and palliative care, optimized and quality management of care paths, coordination and leadership, activation of simple and complex social-care paths,  by integrating professionals and hospital, territorial and home care resources, enhanced recovery after surgery, care management to tackle the growing complexity of care in a district context, and take over patients with advanced complexity, missed nursing care.
Admission and teaching mode
The
Master in Nursing, Clinical Research and Artificial Intelligence in Oncology and Palliative Care
is delivered in blended mode, i.e., frontal teaching can be delivered remotely on demand, any workshops and/or laboratories in preparation for the internship will be delivered in hybrid mode (in-person or remotely in synchronous mode) while the internship is exclusively in-person.
During the remote section, the course may be followed also by students working full-time jobs, since it will be provided on demand on the Moodle multimedia platform of the University of Padua. It features on-demand lessons,  as it was designed for students and professionals who wish to conciliate other activities and professions with the need to qualify or specialize themselves further.
Video-lessons will include on-demand homework to attest to the competences acquired.
The Project Work for the final exam will be also completed on the online platform, as agreed with the tutor. While its presentation will be done in person, with the option of a remote connection, just like the first day of the Master.
Interaction between students and professors will be frequent, and facilitated through Moodle Forum.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
10
Maximum available spots:
200
First instalment:
€
									2.022,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.000,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
What are the minimum attendance requirements?
Attendance is mandatory, and in order to obtain the title, at least 70% of the online lessons must be completed.
Will there be any forms of facilitation?
Students with disabilities between 66% and 100%, or certification pursuant to Law no. 104, will be exempted from paying the enrolment fee, and will be only required to pay the pre-enrolment fee, the insurance fee, and stamp.
Public Administration
: PA employees enrolling in our Master, will enjoy a €330 reduction on the second registration instalment. Moreover, the PA Department will award 50% of the enrolment fee paid by the student. For further information, refer to the Protocol pages, on the PA Department institutional website:
https://www.funzionepubblica.gov.it/formazione/pa-110-e-lode
https://presidenza.governo.it/AmministrazioneTrasparente/Sovvenzioni/CriteriModalita/DFP/PA110eLode/DcrCD_20230808_criteriPA110.pdf
University staff with an open-ended employment contract may enrol in the course. The enrolment fee for University Technical-Administrative Staff is equal to the minimum enrolment fee, as established by Article 24, p. 1 of the University Regulation for Master Courses, Post-Graduate and Higher Education Courses of the University of Padua, and is equal to 20% of the fee. If the staff with open-ended labour contract possesses the requirements to enrol in the Course, once the Master is over, they will obtain the related Title or Diploma, or, if they do not possess the selection requirements, they may attend as Auditors and obtain an Attendance Certificate.
What is the final Project Work?
The Project Work consists of a final project concerning one of the topics covered during the Master.
Project Works may include literature review, data processing, data collection and summary, clinical research projects, etc.
During the Project (at the end of the lessons until the title awarding session), students will be flanked by a tutor, who will guide them throughout the process. At the end of the Master, students will present their Project Work before an online committee on the Zoom platform.
How will the selection take place?
The Master admission selection is based on qualifications only. The selection method is described on the Master announcement.
Will there be any educational material to support individual study?
Apart from providing video lessons, the professors will provide, through the Moodle platform, texts, scientific publications, lecture notes, and other material, to explore the topics presented and to support individual study. Moreover, students have access to all the resources online and at the “Vincenzo Pinali” Medicine Library.
Classes start:
02/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
blended
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.022,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Matteo Bernardi
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Segreteria - Unità di Biostatistica, Epidemiologia e Sanità Pubblica
Phone:
331 2601668
Email:
segreteria.master@ubep.unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top