Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/omp-oral-disease-and-medicine-and-odontostomatologic-diagnostics/

Skip to content
Second level university master
OMP
Oral Disease and Medicine and Odontostomatologic Diagnostics
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
OMP - Oral Disease and Medicine and Odontostomatologic Diagnostics
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
OMP - Oral Disease and Medicine and Odontostomatologic Diagnostics
The
Master in Oral Pathology and Medicine and Odontostomatologic Diagnostic
offers graduates in Orthodontics and Dental Prosthetics the possibility of intercepting and diagnosing the pathologies of the mouth, of soft tissues and hard tissues.
Purpose of this course is to inform orthodontists in the discipline, and carry out the screening and prevention activities on benign and malignant diseases in all paediatric and adult patients.
Learning content
The
Master in Oral Pathology and Medicine and Odontostomatologic Diagnostic
makes professionals independent in carrying out an accurate clinical history, in understanding pharmacological interactions and oral manifestations of systemic pathologies, and the systemic  outcomes of oral pathologies, and in prescribing and interpreting laboratory and imaging diagnostic examination methods. The course includes lectures once a month during the academic year, and the option of attending the unit for practical and clinical activities, as well as surgical practice in the treatment of mouth and systemic diseases with oral expression.
Students will have the chance to carry out training activities on patients, with the help of professors, and follow their therapeutic diagnostic path. During lectures, there will be the option of discussing clinical cases. Also, they will have the option of attending the general OR for observational purposes.
Recipients and career opportunities
The
Master in Oral Pathology and Medicine and Odontostomatologic Diagnostic
is addressed to graduates in Medicine and Surgery, with qualification in Orthodontics, and graduates in Orthodontics and Dental Prosthetics, who wish to acquire and explore notions of mouth diseases and pathology.
The knowledge acquired may be applied in day-to-day clinical practice, with greater confidence in tackling the most difficult clinical cases.
Course program
The
Master in Oral Pathology and Medicine and Odontostomatologic Diagnostic
provides in-depth knowledge on:
Module 1 – Introduction to Oral Pathology and Medicine
: identification, diagnosis and treatment of specific injuries of the mouth concerning soft and hard tissues.
Module 2 – Local and locoregional anaesthesia and sedation techniques
: identification of the patient’s risk class, anaesthesiology monitoring techniques, sedation, local and locoregional anaesthesia and techniques.
Module 3 – Histopathological, cytological and immunohistochemical diagnostics
: histological, cytological and immunohistochemical diagnostic methods; collection techniques from the anatomopathologists standpoint; preparation set-up techniques; first level and advanced diagnostic methods.
Module 4 – Histopathological, cytological and immunohistochemical diagnostics:
diagnostic methods concerning molecular typing.
Module 5 – Histopathological, cytological and immunohistochemical diagnostics:
advanced immunohistochemical diagnostic methods.
Module 6 – Diagnostic imaging
: Selecting the best diagnostic imaging technique available in a reasoned and ethically justifiable manner, with the reasonably lower exposure.
Module 7 – Haematology
: oncohaematological pathologies and their implications in mouth diseases.
Module 8 – Endocrinology
: endocrinological pathologies and their implications in mouth diseases.
Module 9 – Haemostatic pathologies
: haemostatic pathologies including drug-induced ones.
Module 10 – Emergency treatment
: Medical and surgical emergency treatment during oral surgeries.
Module 11- Maxillary
osteonecrosis
: related to drug use and radiation therapy.
Module 12- Surgical complications
: in oral and maxillofacial surgery.
Teaching mode
The Master will include clinical activities on  Tuesday morning (8 am – 1 pm), and first visits, check-ups and OR activities every week, on Wednesday morning
(8 am – 1 pm), first-aid clinical and unit activities with consultation on rotation every Tuesday morning (8 am – 1 pm), and OR activities and post-surgery check-ups on rotation. Lectures will be held on Monday or Saturday, once a month.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this
Second-Level Short Specialisation Degree
according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
10
First instalment:
€
									2.022,50
Second instalment:
€
									602,50
Selection process notice
Website
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
How will the course be structured?
The course includes lectures that may also be followed remotely, in case of need.
Will there be unit-based lessons?
Operational attendance at the unit is scheduled and recommended, in order to acquire lecture-related notions and tackle the final exam.
Will there be a final exam?
There will be a final Master exam, to be agreed upon with the professors.
What are the minimum attendance requirements?
Mandatory attendance concerns 70% of the total Master hours.
Will there be any forms of facilitation?
There will be forms of facilitation, if specifically requested.
Classes start:
14/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.625,00
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Christian Bacci
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Sarah Mazzonetto
Phone:
049 8218098
Email:
odontoiatria.neuroscienze@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top