Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/omps-oral-pathology-and-medicine/

Skip to content
First level university master
OMPS
Oral Pathology and Medicine
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
OMPS - Oral Pathology and Medicine
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
OMPS - Oral Pathology and Medicine
The
Master in Oral Pathology and Medicine
prepares graduates in healthcare professionals in processing suspected
diagnoses
, and in the
prevention
and
treatment
of specific hard and soft tissues pathologies of the mouth.
The most relevant professional figures include Dental Hygienists, responsible for mouth disease prevention; Nurses, who manage patients affected by specific mouth diseases; Speech Therapists, to expand their knowledge of anatomy and mouth diseases; Obstetricians, who, as indicated by current literature, should be capable of
identifying any mouth diseases
to reduce any possible complications for the unborn child. At the end of the course, students will master oral diseases, with proper care and management of patients, while ensuring the highest, most distinctive treatment level compared to professionals who have never explored these topics.
Learning content
The
Master in Oral Pathology and Medicine
provides in-depth knowledge on:
Mouth anatomy, physiology and physiopathology, and related systemic implications
Hands-on practice, including role playing on the clinical cases examined
Development of independent judgement skills, from a clinical, ethical and deontological standpoint
Acquisition of a technical language to facilitate a dialogue between professionals specialized in different areas
Ability to talk with the patient, ensuring an emphatic communication and adequate understanding of the clinical framework, to obtain an actual informed consent on possible treatments
Practical application of the knowledge acquired during lessons and seminars in the clinical activity
Recipients and career opportunities
The
Master in Oral Pathology and Medicine
is addressed to healthcare professionals with the relevant title, qualified to practice, and registered in the related professional registers. It is also addressed to professionals who work in hospitals or in private practices.
Its transposition in a professional context concerns the ability to manage specific cases of mouth disease, and to identify severe diseases that should be referred to a private practice, clinical or hospital setting.
Program
The Master in Oral Pathology and Medicine provides in-depth knowledge and insights on:
HISTOPATHOLOGICAL, CITOLOGICAL, AND IMMUNOISTOCHEMICAL DIAGNOSTIC
Histopathological, citological and immunoistochemical diagnostic methods
Collection techniques from the pathologist’s standpoint
Preparation set-up techniques
First-level and advanced diagnostic methods
Molecular typing diagnostic methods
Immunoistochemistry advanced diagnostic methods
DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING
Selecting the best diagnostic imaging technique available in a reasoned and ethically justifiable manner, with the reasonably lower exposure
HAEMATOLOGY
Oncohaematological pathologies and their implications in mouth diseases
ENDOCRINOLOGY
Endocrinological pathologies and their implications in mouth diseases
HEMOSTASIS PATHOLOGIES
Hemostasis pathologies, including drug-induced ones
EMERGENCY TREATMENT
Local and locoregional anaesthesia and sedation
Medical and surgical emergency treatment during oral surgeries
MAXILLARY OSTEONECROSIS
Maxillary osteonecrosis related to drug use and radiation therapy
SURGICAL COMPLICATIONS
Surgical complications in oral and maxillofacial surgery
Graduatoria generale di merito
La graduatoria generale di merito per l’a.a. 2024/2025 sarà disponibile qui, secondo le tempistiche dell’avviso di selezione.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
30/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
14
First instalment:
€
									2.022,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.000,00
Selection process notice
Website
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
Why choose this Master?
This Master is an important opportunity for healthcare professionals (dental hygienists, nurses, obstetricians, speech therapists) interested in acquiring competences such as: processing a suspected diagnosis, preventing and treating specific diseases of hard and soft tissues of the mouth. Also, since it is a First-Level Master, it exonerates from ECM-related obligations for one year.
How is the course organized?
The course will condense the theoretical part in 6 days during the academic year 2024/2025.
A different topic will be treated in each session, to ensure new perspectives for day-to-day clinical practice. Classroom lessons are always held on Saturdays (full day) every 2 months, with a mandatory attendance of 70% of the lessons. The theoretical part is linked to the practical part, where  knowledge acquired during lessons is consolidated.
How is the practical part organized?
Hands-on practiceis essential to master the topics treated in the Master, and for this reason, students will flank tutors and attendings of the Oral Pathology and Medicine clinic, at the Dental Clinic of the Universal Hospital of Padua. Students can decide when to attend the ward, between Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday (between 8AM and 1 PM). On these days, there will be different clinical activities, to encompass all the interesting aspects of oral diseases.
What will be the final exam?
The final exam will be an oral test.
Classes start:
11/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padova
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.022,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Christian Bacci
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Dott.ssa Sarah Mazzonetto
Phone:
0498218098
Email:
odontoiatria.neuroscienze@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top