Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/opo-paediatric-dentistry-and-orthodontics-in-childhood-and-adolescence/

Skip to content
Second level university master
OPO
Paediatric dentistry and orthodontics in childhood and adolescence
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
OPO - Paediatric dentistry and orthodontics in childhood and adolescence
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
OPO - Paediatric dentistry and orthodontics in childhood and adolescence
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree in Paediatric Dentistry and Orthodontics in Childhood and Adolescence
trains and completes the preparation of attendees in the dental management in child and adolescent patients, in the fields of diagnosis, prevention and treatment.
The course provides competencies and specific updates concerning the materials, techniques and procedures in the
dental prevention, conservative, endodontics, traumatology and surgery
fields, including all the aspects of sedation and medical-legal issues in the paediatric age. It also includes an insight on what a paediatric dentist should know and recognize in a small patient, in order to ensure a harmonic development of jaw occlusion and skeletal structures.
The Master’s Degree also trains professionals in dealing with complex cases using simple procedures, and in accompanying the patients throughout their growth, in an overall vision of the evolutionary phases.
Educational content
The course units of the
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Paediatric Dentistry and Orthodontics in Childhood and Adolescence
involve the following thematic areas:
Dental management of child and adolescent patients;
Dental traumatology and relevant interventions;
Interceptive orthodontics.
By following the Short specialisation degree’s course, attendees will understand the criteria required to formulate a correct diagnosis, define a suitable treatment plan, apply biomechanical knowledge to manage different phases of the
orthodontics treatment
, choose the best treatment plans for each patient based on their requests and on therapeutic protocols.
The Short specialisation degree includes in-person lessons, seminars, lectures by experts and online live/recorded multimedia content. The learning skills will be tested on a monthly basis, through the professors’ questions.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Paediatric Dentistry and Orthodontics in Childhood and Adolescence
trains professionals in paediatric orthodontics.
Attendees will be able to use the knowledge acquired to treat simple and complex cases, within a multidisciplinary vision of pathologies in childhood and adolescence.
The Short specialisation degree prepares orthodontists for possible collaborations as consultant in dental practices, and trains it for the most common dentistry urgencies in the paediatric age and in interceptive orthodontics.
Course program
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Paediatric Dentistry and Orthodontics in Childhood and Adolescence
provides training on:
Reception and approach to children, ortho-paedodontic practice organization principles;
Oral pathologies in childhood and adolescence;
Genetic involvement in dental pathologies and syndromes;
Non-pharmacological behavioural approach to
children in dental practices
and technical sedation procedures in
paedodontic patients
: different aspects of the same issue;
Cariology: from diagnosis and
caries assessment
to prevention and treatment;
Nutritional principles and lifestyles in preventing oral pathologies in young patients;
MIH, EH, HSPM – little-known issues: diagnosis and treatment principles of hypomineralization of
primary and permanent dentition
;
Conservative therapy for child and adolescent patients: tips and tricks for direct, semi-indirect and indirect restoration;
Endodontics in
paediatric orthodontics
: from deciduous to permanent teeth;
Consolidate treatment protocols and new endodontic regeneration techniques;
Dental traumatology
. Treatment guidelines and multidisciplinary team to solve complex cases;
State-of-the-art dental tissue regeneration. A look at the future;
Paediatric oral surgery;
Paediatric dental laser and its multiple uses;
Orthodontic diagnosis and orthodontic semeiotics
: how to frame young patients when an orthodontic treatment is required;
Orthodontic treatment in childhood and adolescence and principles of
interceptive orthodontics
;
OSAS and its implications on young patients;
Medical-legal aspects in paediatric dentistry: from informed consent to medical-legal certifications.
Faculty
Sergio Mazzoleni – Master’s Director
Antonio Luigi Tiberio Gracco – University Coordination
Patrizia Lucchi – Scientific Director
Francesco Saverio Ludovichetti – Organizational Director
Lecturers
Pio Bertani
Vincenza Birardi
Giuseppe Chiodera
Raffaello Cortesi
Paolo Generali
Antonio Gracco
Lisa Lardani
Patrizia Lucchi
Sergio Mazzoleni
Francesca Milano
Giovanna Orsini
Enzo Rossi
Monaldo Saracinelli
Matteo Spigarolli
Chiara Terrazzani
Gastone Zanette
Daniela Zuccarello
Meeting calendar
The lesson calendar of the
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree in Paediatric Dentistry and Orthodontics in Childhood and Adolescence
includes the following dates:
13/14 December 2024
24/25 January 2025
21/22 February 2025
28/29 March 2025
16/17 May 2025
27/28 June 2025
19/20 September 2025
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Second-level short specialisation degree according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
20/09/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
10
Maximum available spots:
25
First instalment:
€
									2.422,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.500,00
Selection process notice
Website
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
Is there a maximum absence threshold?
Attendance is mandatory for at least 70% of the total hours.
Will a certification be awarded?
Yes, at the end of the course, a Second-level short specialisation degree’s Diploma will be awarded.
Will there be a final exam?
Yes, the Short specialisation degree includes a final oral exam. Specific info will be given during the first lesson of the Short specialisation degree.
How and where are the lessons provided?
In-person lessons are organized in two-day meetings on a monthly basis.
The Short specialisation degree will be held at the ADR – Medical Training, via Ugo Foscolo, no. 17, Treviso.
Following the Covid-19 healthcare emergency, classes may be held also online, based on future circulation and in-person class attendance limitations.
The synchronous and/or asynchronous distance learning mode will be at the Short specialisation degree Director’s Discretion.
Will there be a personal study session?
By enrolling in the Second-level Short Specialisation Degree, you will have access to the Moodle platform of the University of Padua, where, in your personal section, you will have the option of accessing additional multimedia content, such as scientific literature, additional live and recorded online lessons, and scientific documentation.
Classes start:
13/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Treviso
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.922,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Dr. Sergio Mazzoleni
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Sarah Mazzonetto
Phone:
0498218098
Email:
odontoiatria.neuroscienze@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top