Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/oris-guidance-and-career-counselling-for-inclusion-sustainability-and-social-justice/

Skip to content
Post graduate programme
ORIS
Guidance and Career Counselling for Inclusion, Sustainability, and Social Justice
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
ORIS - Guidance and Career Counselling for Inclusion, Sustainability, and Social Justice
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
ORIS - Guidance and Career Counselling for Inclusion, Sustainability, and Social Justice
The
Course in Guidance and Career Counselling for Inclusion, Sustainability, and Social Justice
prepares guidance and career counselling professionals with the knowledge and skills required to support individuals throughout their lifetimes in planning for a quality future. The Master’s Course goes deeper into the literature on the threats and challenges of
what is happening today
and defines scientifically grounded guidance procedures and methodologies to support, from an inclusive and sustainable perspective, the
creation of a future
throughout life, educational and career choices, job searching, professional transitions, assistance and inclusion in the workplace, for a quality life – those who are vulnerable as well. The course aims to train professionals capable of contributing – through guidance and social advocacy – to creating inclusive, sustainable, and social justice-oriented contexts.
Educational content
The
Course in Guidance and Career Counselling for Inclusion, Sustainability, and Social Justice
is presented as an interdisciplinary training course that will involve experts in the fields of guidance, economics, human rights, legal and political sciences, the sociology of work, information technology and accessibility, sustainability, etc. in order to take the best from different experiences and types of knowledge.
The Master’s course also includes international comparisons on the topics of guidance, development, and sustainability in order to create shared research and experimentation.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Course in Guidance and Career Counselling for Inclusion, Sustainability, and Social Justice
is for those who work in or would like to work in guidance and professional development as per the latest scientifically valid conceptual frameworks. These are individuals who will be able to support people in the process of professional planning and future building.
The Master’s course trains experts in the field of career guidance and counselling who will be able to offer counselling, training,  and take action in the field of guidance as freelancers, collaborators, or employees of public or private, profit and non-profit organisations (schools, universities, employment centres and employment services, training organisations, consultancy firms, etc.).
Course program
The
Course in Guidance and Career Counselling for Inclusion, Sustainability, and Social Justice
provides training in:
Module 1:
CHALLENGES AND THREATS OF THE XXI CENTURY
Current context, challenges, threats and inequalities in society and the work world
Models and dimensions of guidance with a focus on inclusivity, sustainability, and social justice; outdated and perplexing guidance processes and actions.
Module 2:
HETEROGENEITY AND VULNERABILITY IN CURRENT TIMES
LGBT and gender equity: guidance, gender, and planning
Disability, migration, poverty and empowerment in planning for the future
Module 3:
GUIDANCE WHEN IT COMES TO INCLUSION, SUSTAINABILITY, AND SOCIAL JUSTICE
Human rights and future building processes
Economic perspectives for a fairer and more inclusive society
Sustainability and inclusive, equitable and sustainable development
Honest work, quality of life and inclusion at work
Module 4:
ASSESSMENT AND INFORMATION PROCEDURES FOR GUIDANCE
Qualitative and quantitative procedures for career guidance and planning useful for launching projects focused on social justice
Procedures for collecting and analysing data and information in the field of inclusive guidance
Module 5:
GUIDANCE ACTIONS
Managing a guidance group in an inclusive way
Guidance over the lifetime in an inclusive and sustainable way with a focus on social justice
Guidance and career planning in universities, schools, job centres, etc.
Guidance interviews and counselling
Module 6:
ACCESSIBILITY, SHARING INFORMATION, AND ENGAGEMENT to BENEFIT initiatives FOR A QUALITY FUTURE
Accessibility, technology, and guidance
Taking on fake news and misinformation for quality professional development
Module 7:
SOCIAL INNOVATION AND GUIDANCE
Guidance and activism to build an inclusive and sustainable society and actions to promote the value of guidance
Social innovation, advocacy and projects for quality futures for people and societies
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Preservation, transmission of culture, and education
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
15
Maximum available spots:
60
First instalment:
€
									502,50
Second instalment:
€
									320,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
How will the course be set up?
Teaching will take place in a synchronous way over Zoom  (84 hours of lectures) and in person (24 hours of workshops). Additional and optional training activities are also planned via both and may or may not be asynchronous. Lessons will take place on Friday afternoons and Saturday mornings every three weeks.
The course lasts one year (November 2024–September 2025).
What kind of degree is necessary to sign up for the course?
At least a three-year degree (all majors).
Is there a maximum number of absences allowed?
Yes. Attendance is compulsory for at least 70% of course activities.
Is it possible to keep the camera turned off during the synchronous lessons?
Students are expected to be active participants therefore we ask that the camera be turned on for the entire course.
Classes start:
22/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
16
Teaching method:
Distance learning
Total enrolment fee:
€
							822,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Ginevra Maria Cristina
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Maria Cristina Ginevra
Phone:
0498276464
Email:
larios@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top