Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/pad-pituitary-and-adrenal-diseases/

Skip to content
Second level university master
PAD
Pituitary and adrenal diseases
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
PAD - Pituitary and adrenal diseases
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
PAD - Pituitary and adrenal diseases
The
Master in Pituitary and Adrenal Diseases
provides an in-depth knowledge of pituitary and adrenal pathologies – a specific branch of endocrinology, characterized by a low incidence of diseases, and by a very sever clinical impact in terms of diagnostic-therapeutic complexity, comorbidity, and mortality.
Moreover, this course sets the foundation for the creation of a multidisciplinary group, through the experience provided by professors of the University Hospital of Padua.
Learning content
The
Master in Pituitary and Adrenal Diseases
prepares student
s
to recognize pituitary and adrenal diseases, and plan the correct diagnostic procedure for the patient, through the use of complex and innovative diagnostic instruments.
The skills provided help students achieve a high level of specialization in pituitary and adrenal diseases, and allow them to perform complex diagnoses, and choose between the different therapeutic approaches available, to manage patients with pituitary and adrenal diseases.
Recipients and career opportunities
The
Master in Pituitary and Adrenal Diseases
is addressed to doctors specialized in Endocrinology, General Surgery, Neurosurgery, Otosurgery, Internal Medicine, Nuclear Medicine, Diagnostic Imaging, Oncology and Radiotherapy. A degree in Medicine or Surgery is required to access the Master.
The main career paths of this course are in clinics specialized in the treatment of pituitary and adrenal diseases, or in a speciality clinic in local healthcare units or as private practice.
Course program
The
Master in Pituitary and Adrenal Diseases
provides detailed knowledge on two macro-modules:
Module 1 – Physiopathology of the Pituitary Gland
Diagnosis, prognosis and treatment of pituitary diseases, Medical genetics applied to pituitary and adrenal diseases, Neuroradiology – Specialist radiology, Skeletal pathology – Secondary osteoporosis and fractures, Neurosurgery of sellar injuries, pituitary oncology, oncological approach to aggressive pituitary adenomas, pathological anatomy of pituitary injuries.
Module 2 – Physiopathology of the Adrenal Gland
General surgery – Endocrine surgery, adrenal failure – Diagnosis and treatment of cortisol deficiency, specialist radiology, adrenal physiopathology – Diagnosis, prognosis and treatment of adrenal diseases, Pathological anatomy of adrenal injuries, Oncological approach to malignant adrenal masses.
The two macro-modules are divided into the two-year period, containing the different topics, with the purpose of providing a broad speciality training, with leading lecturers of proven experience and medical excellence.
TEACHING SYSTEM
The course spans over two years, with in-person lessons in dual mode, 1-2 times a year, for about 2 hours, usually on Tuesday or Thursday, from 12.30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. Further insight modules may be implemented through a monthly afternoon lesson, usually held on Monday, from 5.00 p.m. to 7.00 p.m. Concerning the internship, it will be carried out in person in our endocrinology clinic/unit, based on a calendar shared with students, for 1-2 days per month, and lasting approximately 3-4 hours. The internship will be held on Monday morning, from 9.30 am, on Tuesday and Thursday afternoon from 2.30 p.m. (with a probably summer break from the internship, between July and September). During the internship at the clinic, there will be one student for each tutor, to ensure a 1:1 relationship between trainer and trainee. Lessons will be held on Zoom, and their video registrations will be available on the DIMED (Medicine Department) Moodle platform, which can be accessed after enrolling in the course, with the relevant credentials and the @unipd.it account.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2026
Mandatory attendance:
75%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
10
First instalment:
€
									1.621,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.008,50
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25-26
FAQ
How long is the PAD Master?
The Master will last two years: from October 2024 to October 2026 (specific dates yet to be defined).
Will there be a final dissertation?
Yes, the Master provides for a final dissertation with relevant presentation.
What is the Master reference AREA and main thematic area?
07 – Medical Sciences (as relevant)
05 – Health, Environment and Territory Area (main)
Will there be any direct care activities on patients?
Yes, there will be observation and care activities on patients.
Classes start:
12/11/2024
Duration:
Two-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.632,00
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Filippo Ceccato
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Luca Francescon
Phone:
0498213000
Email:
luca.francescon@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top