Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/paep-architectural-and-landscape-psychology/

Skip to content
Second level university master
PAEP
Architectural and landscape psychology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
PAEP - Architectural and landscape psychology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
PAEP - Architectural and landscape psychology
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Architectural and Landscape Psychology
provides theoretical knowledge and application tools in the field of architectural psychology. This discipline, also known as environmental psychology, studies the
interaction between people and the physical environment
and offers up a design concept that takes into account the cognitive, affective, behavioural, and motivational characteristics of users.
Educational content
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Architectural and Landscape Psychology
trains students in the use of
application tools
in the various architectural contexts (residential, urban, work, learning, care and leisure) and in
verifying the effectiveness
of interventions, providing the skills to analyse requests from private and institutional environments and to come up with assessment, implementation, and verification tools after the fact in various environments and from a multidisciplinary perspective.
The Master’s has an agreement with the IUAV University of Venice and CIRPA (Inter-University Centre for Research in Environmental Psychology) of Sapienza University in Rome.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Architectural and Landscape Psychology
is aimed at psychologists, architects, engineers, local administrators, and those working in schools, healthcare, cultural and architectural heritage protection and safety.
Psychologists experienced in environmental psychology can
advise
public administrations, architects, engineers, town planners, on projects aimed at creating safe, healthy and welcoming environments in schools, prisons, urban environments, offices and homes.
Local administrators, tourism and cultural heritage professionals, and planners can also make use of the knowledge provided by the Master’s course to
broaden and enrich
their areas of expertise and action.
Course program
The
Second-level Short Specialisation Degree
in Architectural and Landscape Psychology
takes on the following topics:
Module 1 –
INTERACTION BETWEEN INDIVIDUAL AND ENVIRONMENT.THE ENVIRONMENTAL PSCYHOLOGY APPROACH.
Introduction to the tools, methods and main theoretical models in the study of the relationship between humans and the environment.
Module 2 –
PERCEPTION, COGNITION, EMOTIONS, MOTIVATION
Main psychological theories on perception, motivation and emotions in relation to how affective and cognitive factors influence the relationship between humans and the environment.
Module 3 –
COMMUNICATIONS IN THE PROFESSIONAL SPHERE
Communicating effectively in a multidisciplinary work context.
Module 4 –
SOCIOCOGNITIVE APPROACH TO ARCHITECTURAL PSYCHOLOGY
Affordance, embodiment and environmental primes: changing norms and behaviour through environmental cues.
Module 5 –
SAFETY AND NAVIGABILITY
Safety laws: general principles. Emergency management. Elements of inclusive design, navigation and wayfinding.
Module 6 –
AGE FRIENDLY DESIGN
Principles guiding the design of homes for the self-sufficient elderly and communities for the elderly who are not self-sufficient.
Module 7 –
QUALITY, PROTECTION, AND ENHANCEMENT OF THE LANDSCAPE
Analysing the factors that can make the landscape more appealing and the tools aimed at protecting or improving the quality of the landscape.
Module 8 –
ARCHITECTURAL AND URBAN DESIGN
Main studies on forms of the city and landscape. Participatory design and case studies.
Module 9 –
OBJECTIVE AND SUBJECTIVE INDICATORS OF URBAN QUALITY
User-centred design and post-occupational assessment, environmental psychology counselling in the design of urban environments.
Module 10 –
CONSTRUCTION OF SCHOOLS, HOUSING, PRISONS, OFFICES
The principles of Environmental Psychology applied to the design of school buildings, offices, prisons and homes.
Module 11 –
HUMANISATION OF CARE ENVIRONMENTS
The humanisation of care environments: user needs and focus on design attributes. Methods, research techniques, and survey tools.
Module 12 –
ART, MUSEUMS, EXHIBITIONS, COMMERCIAL SPACES, PLACES OF WORSHIP
Indications for Environmental Psychology as it pertains to the design of commercial spaces, places of worship, art exhibitions, museums.
Graduatoria generale di merito
The general merit list for A.Y. 2024/25 will be published here according to the timeline stipulated in the Notice.
Information
Thematic area:
Mind and psycho-physical well-being
End of classes:
10/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
10
Maximum available spots:
30
First instalment:
€
									2.122,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.000,00
Selection process notice
Website
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
What is the difference between the internship and the project work?
The internship takes place at an organisation that is already accredited with the university, or with one of the student’s choice (entering into agreement with the university). The internship may be tied to the thesis, though it isn’t necessary; there should be an internship advisor within the organisation, and the work can be started in February. Project work is something that the student (alone or in a group of other students) carries out independently without necessarily having to partner with another organisation. Unlike the internship, project work is not tied to a specific location and therefore does not require a defined venue. It may be tied to the thesis, though it isn’t necessary.
Is there a list of affiliated organisations for carrying out the apprenticeship?
You can receive a list of affiliated organisations by sending an email to the secretariat of the Master’s course
master.psicologiaarchitettonica@unipd.it
Classes start:
14/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
blended
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.122,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Francesca Pazzaglia
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Veronica Murroni
Phone:
0498276693
Email:
master.psicologiaarchitettonica@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top