Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/patcard-cardiovascular-pathology/

Skip to content
Second level university master
PATCARD
Cardiovascular pathology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
PATCARD - Cardiovascular pathology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
PATCARD - Cardiovascular pathology
The
Master in Cardiovascular Pathology
is a professional post-graduate course in
specialist cardiovascular pathological anatomy,
in an interdisciplinary view.
Its purpose is providing knowledge on new diagnostic and lab techniques, to foster the acquisition of a professional training in the
main cardiovascular pathological anatomy techniques
,
acquired and congenital heart disease
,
cardiovascular physiopathology
and
experimental cardiology
(autopsy techniques; macroscopic examination of cardiac samples; histological and immunohistochemical techniques, optical microscopy, histomorphometry; serial histological analysis of conductive tissue; use of transmission and scan electronic microscopy for ultrastructural studies; molecular diagnostic methods), with a methodology promoting anatomical-clinical relations for a correct case interpretation and the relationship with the specialist. Thanks to the course’s morphological angle, it is also useful to specialists and surgeons, with particular emphasis on the structural bases of diseases.
Educational content
The Master in Cardiovascular Diseases
covers the following topics:
Sudden death
Heart transplant
Congenital heart disease
Cardiac surgical pathology
Endomyocardial biopsy
Post-surgery and interventional pathology
Ultrastructural pathology
Clinical-pathological correlations with advanced cardiovascular imaging (CT, CMR, 3D Echo).
Cardiovascular forensic pathology
Molecular pathology of infectious and hereditary cardiovascular diseases.
Lessons will be  held both in person and remotely.
The course comprises seminars, lectures and, first and foremost, on the clinical-pathological conference method. Students will take part in:
Practical sessions on relevant topics (Monday 11 am – 1 pm), in-person only
Clinical-pathological and forensic pathology conferences (Monday (1:30 – 2:30 pm), blended mode
Lectures on specific topics (Monday 2:30 – 3 pm), blended mode
Macroscopic and biopsy microscope practice (Monday 3:30 – 5 pm), in-person only
Refresher courses/Symposiums/Seminars held by the Structure (1 or 2 days), in-person only
Moreover, students will be required to complete a project work on one of the topics covered.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Master in Cardiovascular Pathology
is mainly addressed to graduates in Specialist (M.D.509) and Master’s Degrees (M.D. 27) in Medicine and Surgery, Veterinary Medicine, Orthodontics and Dental Prosthetics, and Biology.
Preferential requirements are a Specialization in Pathological Anatomy, Legal Medicine, Cardiology, and Cardiosurgery.
Doctors will deepen their knowledge of
cardiovascular pathological anatomy
, by acquiring professional competence in the main techniques (autopsy, macroscopic examination, histology, immunohistochemistry, optical microscopy, histomorphometry, electronic microscopy, molecular diagnostic), and the correlation work methodology.
Doctors will gain independence in assessing cardiovascular pathologies; will be able to collect and interpret data useful to determine independent decision; will promote original studies; will gain critical analysis and clear communication abilities regarding their knowledge, ideas, problems and solutions to specialist and non-specialist interlocutors, and to society in general.
Moreover, doctors will develop their ability to undertake further studies with a high level of independence, and to promote a technological and cultural innovation, based on the knowledge acquired in cardiovascular pathology, in academic and professional contexts.
Course program
The
Master in Cardiovascular Pathology
provides knowledge in the following thematic areas:
PATHOMORPHOLOGY
Cardiovascular Pathological Anatomy – Cardiac Morphology: notions of normal heart and vessel anatomy, to better interpret congenital and acquired (even post-surgery) structural defects.
Cardiovascular Pathological Anatomy – Molecular Biology: diagnostic role of molecular genetics in hereditary-familiar cardiovascular diseases with a risk of sudden death in young people and athletes.
Cardiovascular Pathological Anatomy – Ultrastructural Pathology: professional training with independent application and interpretation of electronic, scan-based and transmission microscopy, and confocal microscopy.
Legal Medicine: forensic lessons/conferences on cardiovascular pathology legal medicine cases.
CLINICAL PATHOLOGY
Cardiovascular Pathological Anatomy – Clinical Pathology
Cardiovascular System Diseases – Acquired: lessons and seminars on the electrophysiological bases of the main acquired cardiac diseases, often cause of sudden cardiovascular death.
Cardiovascular System Diseases – Hereditary-Familiar: hereditary and familiar structural and non-structural cardiomyopathies.
Cardiovascular System Diseases – Cardiac Imaging: lessons on the main congenital and acquired heart diseases, often cause of morbidity and cardiovascular mortality.
Cardiovascular System Diseases – Inflammatory: lessons on inflammatory heart diseases, often cause of morbidity and cardiovascular mortality.
Sports Cardiology: lessons on the main cardiopathies that cause sudden death in sports, which can be identified through 1st and 2nd level competitive sports screening.
Secondary Cardiomyopathies: lessons on the secondary cardiomyopathies that cause cardiovascular mortality.
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY
Cardiovascular Pathological Anatomy – Surgical Pathology: review and discussion of macroscopic and histological findings concerning congenital and acquired heart diseases, which require a surgery and interventional procedures.
Cardiovascular Pathological Anatomy – Sudden Death in Infants/
SIUD Pathology
:  review and discussion of macroscopic and histological findings of sudden death in infants.
Cardiac Surgery in Adults: lessons on the latest surgical techniques concerning the main cardiovascular diseases in adults, for both corrective and replacement purposes.
Cardiac Surgery in Paediatric Patients: lessons on the main congenital heart diseases in adults, which often cause comorbidity and cardiovascular mortality.
Cardiac Diseases in Paediatric Patients: lessons on the clinical morphology (bi-dimensional and three-dimensional echocardiography, angiography and magnetic resonance) of cardiac diseases in paediatric patients.
Events
The Master faculty holds annual training courses on congenital heart disease/heart diseases in paediatric patients, and an anatomy course for arrhythmologists, both providing anatomical demonstrations to understand the structural bases of modern imaging and interventional cardiology techniques.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
10
Single instalment:
€
									2.625,00
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
How will the distance learning course be structured?
The Zoom platform will be used to access remote lessons only.
Will there be an internship/apprenticeship?
Yes,
the course requires a one-month internship at the Cardiovascular Pathology Unit of the University Hospital of Padua, during
the practical sessions.
Will there be any forms of facilitation?
Unfortunately, no scholarships will be provided, nor any DAC List reserved spots.
What are the minimum attendance requirements?
Attendance of at least 70% of the lessons is mandatory, according to the scheduled published at the beginning of the Course.
Where will the Course be held?
The Master in Cardiovascular Pathology will be held at the Istituto di Anatomia Patologica, Via Aristide Gabelli no.61, Padua.
Classes start:
30/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
English
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
blended
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.625,00
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Cristina Basso
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Chiara Carturan
Phone:
0498272280
Email:
chiara.carturan@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top