Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/pc2-personal-construct-psychology-and-counselling/

Skip to content
First level university master
PC2
Personal construct psychology and counselling
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
PC2 - Personal construct psychology and counselling
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
PC2 - Personal construct psychology and counselling
This short specialization programme trains professionals to be experts in the theory and methodology of
Personal Construct Psychology (PCP)
, an approach interested in how people give meaning to their experiences, mainly applied in the clinical (including psychotherapy), educational, developmental, and organizational fields. The course will provide attendees with advanced competencies and tools in the areas of assessment, counselling, professional-user communication, interpersonal relationships, and group dynamics. With the acquired competencies, students will be able to offer psychological assessment, counselling, and intervention within national and international high-complexity contexts (e.g., healthcare, social, educational and training services) to support and promote their clients’ change and wellbeing.
The classes will be held entirely in english and in blended mode.
Educational content
Classes will be held online and will take place monthly on
Saturday and/or Sunday for a duration of 7 academic hours each and a total of 231 hours (33 days)
. Seven full-day workshops will be held in-person, and will take place within two residential stays of 3-4 days, one in Italy and one in England. To obtain the final qualification, a minimum attendance of 70% of total class hours is mandatory.
The traineeship will be carried out in the country of residence of the student and will consist of 300 hours of practical activities at private or public services, in clinical, healthcare, educational, social, or organizational areas.
Through a final dissertation, students will demonstrate the acquisition of the knowledge and competencies necessary to develop a helping relationship based on Personal Construct Psychology. The final dissertation consists of an independent research project on an approved topic of your choice.
Target and career opportunities
The minimum entry requirement for the PC2 course is a Bachelor’s degree or equivalent in the field of Humanities (e.g., Psychology, Philosophy and Sociology), Education (e.g., Elementary Education, Physical Education), Medicine, or another health or social care profession (e.g., Physiotherapy, Nursing, Social Work).
The programme will provide attendees with advanced competencies and tools in the theory and methodology of Personal Construct Psychology. With the acquired competencies, students will be able to offer psychological assessment, counselling, and intervention in the clinical (including psychotherapy), educational, developmental, and organizational fields. The course trains professionals in the areas of health, well-being, social care, and education, as well as those who work in public administrations, agencies and companies that provide services to the person, NGOs, and non-profit organizations, in national and international contexts. On successful completion of the course, students will receive a certificate in personal construct psychology and counselling, which will provide a foundation for more advanced training in applications of personal construct psychology, such as personal construct psychotherapy, which, depending on the regulations of the country in which the professional works, may enable registration as a practitioner in this field.
Programme
PCP AS A THEORY OF PRACTICE
Theoretical assumptions and practical developments based on Personal Construct Theory for the understanding of interpersonal relationships and the improvement of skills for counselling and psychological support. Epistemological principles and conception of the knowledge/reality relationship, framed within the constructivist approach. The topics will concern the conceptions of the person, corporeality, transitions, diagnostic constructs, role, and dependency relationships.
TOOLS AND METHODOLOGY
Main methods for psychological assessment and research. Contents will concern: interview techniques, generation of research questions and hypotheses, different types of variables and their measurement, reliability and validity of the measures employed for data collection, and the main methods of diagnosis and intervention, focusing on constructivist tools, including repertory grid techniques.
PCP IN PRACTICE
Study of some of the main areas in which constructivist theory is applied. Models of intervention will be presented in the areas of end-of-life and grief, groups and organizations, migration and refugees, ageing, childhood, and others.
OTHER PSYCHOTHERAPEUTIC APPROACHES
Theoretical assumptions and intervention models of the main psychotherapeutic approaches: cognitive-behavioural, psychodynamic, humanistic, and systemic approaches. Application examples will be provided, stimulating critical comparisons between the approaches.
GENERAL PSYCHOLOGY AND APPLIED NEUROPSYCHOLOGY
Basic psychological knowledge in perception, memory
, emotion, cognition
and action and their application in clinical settings. Study of brain structures and functions related to psychological processes and behaviour. Neuroanatomical relationships with major neuropsychological syndromes and their application through case studies.
SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY
Main theories and models investigating the relationship between the individual, society, and culture and how they influence each other. Study of interpersonal relationships and communication.
DEVELOPMENTAL AND FAMILY PSYCHOLOGY
Theoretical and methodological assumptions of developmental psychology. Study of the developmental trajectories and mechanisms responsible for change. Skills to work with minors and families: assessment interviews, intervention models, psycho-educational projects in schools.
MENTAL HEALTH AND PSYCHIATRY
Principles of psychiatry and psychopathology: pathogenetic models, categorization and diagnosis of disorders, clinical and therapeutic principles.
PRINCIPLES OF PSYCHOTHERAPY RESEARCH
Main models of research in psychotherapy. The topics will include general aspects of research in psychotherapy, major constructs and measurement tools, and both process and outcome research.
ETHICS
Theoretical and normative knowledge for a critical and conscious understanding of codes of ethics for psychological intervention
and research
.
Partnership
This short specialization programme is proposed in collaboration with the
Department of Psychology, Sport, and Geography of the University of Hertfordshire (UK)
, with which the Department of General Psychology of the University of Padua has an agreement. In addition, the programme provides a network of local services for the curricular traineeship both in Italy and abroad.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Mind and psycho-physical well-being
End of classes:
30/10/2026
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
11
Maximum available spots:
40
First instalment:
€
									2.022,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.206,50
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
Get the brochure
"
*
" indicates required fields
Name
*
Surname
*
Email
*
Processing of personal data
*
Ho letto l’
Informativa privacy
. L’Università di Padova potrà inviarmi comunicazioni su attività e corsi che organizza.
FAQ
How will distance learning be structured?
Classes will be held online monthly on Saturday and/or Sunday for a duration of 7 academic hours each (academic hour = 45 min.) and the whole master consists of 231 hours (33 days). The seven one-day workshops are held in person, within the context of two stays of 3-4 days each, one in Italy and one in England.
To obtain the final qualification, a minimum attendance of 70% of the classes is required.
The final thesis consists of an individual research project on a topic of one’s choice, approved by the Master’s director.
Is a traineeship planned?
Yes, the curriculum includes a traineeship of 300 hours (12 CFU). The traineeship will be carried out in the country of residence of the student and will consist of practical activities at private or public services or professionals in the clinical (including psychotherapy), educational, developmental, and organizational fields.
Students will be required to find their own placements and supervisors and t
he programme will support them in doing so and provide a list of potential services and supervisors for the curricular traineeship both in Italy and abroad.
Are there any forms of facilitation?
No further forms of facilitation are envisaged.
However, for students with disabilities recognized by the National Health Service Commissions ranging from 66% to 100% or with a disability recognized under Article 3, paragraph 1, of Law no. 104 of February 5, 1992, a full exemption from the enrollment fee is reserved. They are still required to pay the pre-enrollment fee (30 Euros), insurance (6.50 Euros), and stamp duty (16 Euros). Additionally, there is a reduction in enrollment costs for employees of the University of Padua and students from developing countries (DAC list).
It will also be possible to request financial support from the Personal Construct Education Trust. Requests will be considered and evaluated based on motivational and merit criteria.
Is there a maximum threshold for absences?
The maximum absence limit is 30% of the total class hours.
What professional outlets does the course offer?
The course trains professionals in the areas of health, well-being, social care, and education, as well as those who work in public administrations, agencies and companies that provide services to the person, NGOs, and non-profit organizations, in national and international contexts.
On successful completion of the course, students will receive a certificate in personal construct psychology and counselling, which
will provide a foundation for more advanced training in applications of personal construct psychology, s
uch as
personal construct psychotherapy, which, depending on the regulations of the country in which the professional works, may enable registration as a practitioner in this field.
Which degrees allow access to the master's program?
To enroll in the Master’s program, students must hold a bachelor’s degree or equivalent, preferably in the fields of humanities, social-health sciences, or educational and training sciences. However, the theory of personal constructs has been successfully applied to very different sectors: from architecture to user experience, from product innovation to market research, from organizational coaching to visual arts. For this reason, we encourage applications from all interested parties, regardless of the disciplinary field of their degree. Each application will be evaluated based on a comprehensive analysis of the specific case’s qualifications, experiences, and motivation.
Classes start:
07/12/2024
Duration:
Two-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
English
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
blended
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.229,00
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Cipolletta Sabrina
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Dipartimento di psicologia generale - Prof.ssa Sabrina Cipolletta
Phone:
0498277423
Email:
pc2.programme@unipd.it
Get the brochure
"
*
" indicates required fields
Name
*
Surname
*
Email
*
Processing of personal data
*
Ho letto l’
Informativa privacy
. L’Università di Padova potrà inviarmi comunicazioni su attività e corsi che organizza.
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top