Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/pisia-innovation-design-and-assessment-of-service-policies-2030-agenda/

Skip to content
Second level university master
PISIA
Innovation, design and assessment of service policies - 2030 Agenda
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
PISIA - Innovation, design and assessment of service policies - 2030 Agenda
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
PISIA - Innovation, design and assessment of service policies - 2030 Agenda
🟡
Sustainable development is at the center of the partnership between BCC Veneta and Padua University
BCC Veneta offers
two scholarships to fully cover the costs
reserved for its members and members’ children in possession of an old system four-year degree or a master’s degree for the Second-level short specialisation degree “PISIA – Innovation, planning and evaluation of policies and of services – Agenda 2030”, academic year 2024/25.
Candidates must send their CV together with a motivational letter and a copy of their Fiscal Code to fundraising@unipd.it and marketingistituzionale@bccveneta.it
by 15/01/2025
.
Candidates must also specify their status as a member or child of a member of the bank.
🟡 The Second-level short specialisation degree also adheres to:
INPS competition notice “Executive” university masters
Registration for the Master (also for INPS scholarship candidates) must be done by Friday 07 February 2025, 12.30 pm
PA Protocol 110 cum laude
This memorandum of understanding signed by the University of Padua and the Ministry of Public Administration guarantees the facilitated use of the Master for employees of the Public Administrations.
_________________________________________________________________________________________
The Second-level short specialisation degree in Innovation, Design and Assessment of Service Policies – 2030 Agenda, accredited by the Department for Public Administration, trains operators of the public and private sectors (and newly-graduates) to develop new competencies and abilities to tackle the next challenges related to the
Recovery and Resilience Plan
.
The course promotes:
considerations on public assets and the innovative collaborative governance capacity, for the creation of public value through policies, services and digitization
development of human resources, soft skills and competencies that can foster the activation and acceleration of innovation, through cutting-edge planning approaches (co-design and gamification)
assessment of policies (counterfactual approach and theory of change), and performance through service quality (design thinking)
creation of public value through public databases (text mining) within the policymaking framework
acquisition of behavioural techniques (nudges) to tackle sustainability issues, especially concerning sustainable tourism.
The Second-level short specialisation degree strategically focuses on the after-pandemic recovery, by involving the figures and professionals of the public sector.
Educational content
The course units of Second-level short specialisation degree in Innovation, Design and Assessment of Service Policies – 2030 Agenda offer a multidisciplinary environment that foster comparison and integration between topics and approaches, the exchange of ideas and professional experiences from diverse institutional and territorial contexts.
Specific attention is given to
local, regional and national policies
within the 2030 Agenda, to public utility services and to the impact of new technologies on the renewal of organizations, instruments and innovative approaches that promote partnerships between the public, private and people. Ample attention is given to
policy design
and
sustainable tourism
,
digital Agendas
(European, national and regional), the use of
AI
,
public textual databases
,
personal data protection
,
design thinking
,
organizational innovation
and
quality of services (also digital)
to citizens
.
The mission is also strengthening cross-sectional work methods, soft skills, and innovative ideas and techniques of policy design, management and sustainable policy assessment. In this context, attendees will learn involvement, motivation and cooperation techniques to promote sustainable innovation, and the improvement policies of the
democratic governance
, according to the approach set forth by the 2030 Agenda.
The topics of sustainable development will be unfolded and adapted to the COVID-19 post-emergency context.
The
Second-level short specialisation degree
in Innovation, Design and Assessment of Service Policies – 2030 Agenda
resorts to the contribution of professors from seven different Departments of the University of Padua, and professors from other Italian and European Universities.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Second-level short specialisation degree
in Innovation, Design and Assessment of Service Policies – 2030 Agenda
prepares:
Students with a Second-level short specialisation degree, doctorate or equivalent titles, who wish to improve their skills and policy competencies
Public administrators
Region, local, state and public utility managers;
Relevant organization and non-profit association managers
Experts, quality and consumer protection managers for private and public associations, institutions and companies
Tourism and sustainability sector managers
Experts of national and regional high-technology services and policy assessment
University administrative managers and technicians
Experts of public relations, image and communication, in the public and private sector
Members of independent evaluation associations and evaluation units
Personal data protection officers
Enriched with new, qualifying competencies and soft skills, such as policy advisor, policy designer, policy evaluator, textual database analyst and innovation manager, attendees – at all organizational and institutional levels – can become the
interpreters and accelerators for innovation
, a crucial lever so that the Country’s modernization and digitization are truly successful.
Course program
The
Second-level short specialisation degree in Innovation, Design and Assessment of Service Policies – 2030 Agenda
provides training and
project work
on:
CHANGE, STRATEGIC LEADERSHIP, COMMUNICATION, PUBLIC, PRIVATE PEOPLE PARTNERSHIP THEORIES
Innovation and public value generation theories
Decision-making and innovation processes
Smart and soft work in public and private contexts
Nudge techniques to improve the effectiveness of policies and services
HR assessment and organizational innovation strategies and techniques
Social media and public communication
DIGITAL TRANSITION (DIGITAL AGENDAS)
Sustainable innovation values, strategies and tools in light of new technologies
Information and service innovation technology
Big and open data, interdependencies, integration and regulation
Privacy law: big data and organizations
Cognitive processes and innovation ecosystem creation
Machine learning, AI and applications in the public sector
EVALUATION OF THE IMPACT OF POLICIES, PERFORMANCES AND SERVICE QUALITY
Social impact analysis and participatory evaluation
Investment risk and evaluation – Social-healthcare service integration and evaluation
User and consumer satisfaction and protection
Change communication and evaluation: textual analysis
Public intervention cost/benefit analysis
PA/company interaction quality measurement
There will also be
SINGLE COURSES
organized as follows:
Nudging and public policies / 25 hours / 3 CFU
Data governance: public database textual analysis / 25 hours / 3 CFU
2030 Agenda policies and performance assessment; Social impact analysis and participatory evaluation / 45 hours / 5 CFU
Personnel assessment and human resource promotion systems / 15 hours / 2 CFU
Integrated cost-benefit analysis for policy sustainability / 21 hours / 3 CFU
The Second-level short specialisation degree and Single Course “
2030 Agenda policies and performance assessment; Social impact analysis and participatory evaluation
” are included in the ongoing education catalogue for the
Lifelong Learning of Independent Assessment Bodies
.
Furthermore, the Second-level short specialisation degree is part of the Erasmus+ “
Nudge my Tour
” – that promotes a behavioural approach to sustainable tourism – and “
Playing public policy
” – on the use of gamification in analysing and designing public policies – European projects.
Call INPS "Executive" University Masters
The Second-level short specialisation degree adheres to the
INPS Competition Call for University Masters “Executive”
.
As part of the Call INPS “Executive” University Masters,
from 3 to 5 places
are reserved for Public Administration employees enrolled in the unitary management of credit and social services.
During the selection procedure, an additional score is assigned for the admission of candidates to the Masters,
if the candidate presents a report from the Administration to which they belong
, as indicated in the INPS notice.
The reasons supporting the candidacy will be set out in the aforementioned report, also taking into account the particular professional characteristics of the employee. The presence of the report will therefore constitute a priority over the non-submission of the same.
Applicants for the INPS scholarship must also present a
self-certification
(
here a model
) in which they declare that they possess the requirements to obtain the benefit and that this self-certification, together with the report of the Administration to which they belong.
Precourse "Nudge My Tour", a.y. 2024-2025
Is expected a pre-course on the behavioral approach to public policies (35 hours) from November to December 2024.
The training course develops the ability to design and apply Nudge to local policies for sustainability with particular focus on tourism.
“Nudge My Tour” is the first ever European project to combine applied behavioural science and tourism.
The project allows to increase the capacities of tourism planning/management professionals and university students on the application of behavior-based measures and Nudge-based actions to the management of tourist flows and the prevention of unsustainable behavior in a tourist site.
Brochure here
The 35 hours of training can be counted as certified
Professional Training Credits
(CFP).
The pre-course provides
Open Badge
: digital certificate that certifies disciplinary knowledge, personal skills (soft skills) and technical skills acquired, in Italian and English.
The Second-level short specialisation degree in Innovation, Design and Evaluation of Policies and Services – Agenda 2030 is a partner in the
European Erasmus+ project “Nudge My Tour”
for the application of Nudge to post-COVID sustainable tourism policies.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Second-level short specialisation degree according to the timing provided in the Call.
Single course
Integrated cost-benefit analysis for policy sustainability
Cost-benefit analysis to support complex decision, public tender drafting and evaluate projects that reply to tender calls.
Analysis of how risk assessment can affect decisions, and, in particular, investment decisions for public goods production.
Selection notice single Master’s courses
Data governance: public database text analysis
Data governance, institutional speech and text analysis as tool to improve decision quality, evaluation of public policies and performance. Quali/quantitative text content analysis techniques that may help to extract value from public and private databases (discursive approach).
Selection notice single Master’s courses
Public nudges and policies
Activities aimed at modifying the architecture of organizational choices, so as to pursue the best possible results.
Defining default rules that the organizational components can adapt to or deviate from, by bearing a minimum cost (focus on tourism and flow sustainability).
Selection notice single Master’s courses
Personnel assessment and human resource promotion systems
Analysis of recent reforms on public sector personnel assessment.
It will analyse case studies, evaluation methods, strategies and techniques behind local bodies and service companies.
Definition of tools to improve service design in a view of quality assessment.
Selection notice single Master’s courses
Agenda 2030 - policies and performance assessment; Social impact analysis and participatory evaluation
Strengthening the administrative and institutional capacity, knowing and understanding methods and techniques to support participatory evaluation (Delphi technique, Nominal Group technique, Collaborative Outcomes Reporting technique, Focus groups, self-assessment guides such as the Common Assessment Framework).
Selection notice single Master’s courses
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
13
Maximum available spots:
30
First instalment:
€
									2.822,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.200,00
Selection process notice
Website
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
When will the Second-level short specialisation degree lessons be held?
The Second-level short specialisation degree consists of a total of 308 hours and runs from February 2025 to October 2025 on Fridays from 09.00 to 13.00 and from 14.00 to 18.00 and on average twice a month on Saturdays from 09.00 to 13.00.
How will the lessons be held?
The lessons will be in
dual mode
: face-to-face in Padua at the Department of Political, Legal and International Studies of the University of Padua and remotely live on the Zoom platform.
Even for
single courses
, there will be the possibility of participating in presence and remotely, live on the Zoom platform without participating in group work, which will only be held in the classroom.
What are the selection criteria of the participants?
The selection criteria of the participants will consist of:
Curriculum Vitae
: 33/60 (maximum score)
Thesis
: 2/60 (maximum score)
Other publications
: 3/60 (maximum score)
Other qualifications that the candidate deems useful
: 5/60 (maximum score)
Presentation letter from the organization only for public administration employees who intend to participate in the INPS call
: 12/60 (maximum score)
Overall min/max score
: min: 20 – max: 60
Candidates for the INPS scholarship must also submit a
self-certification
in which they declare that they possess the requirements to obtain the benefit and that this self-certification, together with the report of the Administration to which they belong.
If there are more questions than there are places, an interview may be scheduled.
Can enrollment for a single master course be carried out by a public body for the benefit of its employee?
Yes, a public body can register for one of its employees. In this case, please contact the Second-level short specialisation degree’s organizational secretariat to get specifics on the procedure to follow and finalize the registration.
What are the benefits of PA110 e lode?
All Public Administration employees who enroll in the Second-level short specialisation degree enjoy a discount of 330 euros on the contribution of the second instalment, even in the event of payment of the registration fee by another person, for example by the belonging body.
Classes start:
21/02/2025
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
Dual-mode
Total enrolment fee:
€
							4.022,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
07/02/2025
pre-enroll
Management
Prof. Maria Stella Righettini
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
UniSMART Fondazione Università di Padova
Phone:
3351727173
Email:
formazione@unismart.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top