Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/pmgi-project-management-and-innovation-management/

Skip to content
First level university master
PMGI
Project management and innovation management
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
PMGI - Project management and innovation management
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
PMGI - Project management and innovation management
Our Short Specialization Degree in Project Management and Innovation Management can boast a twenty-year history of success.
Many students who attended our course went on to work for some of the most important national businesses and multinational companies, and most of our alumni are still part of a network that keeps growing thanks to the useful exchange of contacts and experiences.
Our PMIM Short Specialization Degree offers a complete training in the field of Project Management. Students will also have a chance to see innovation in all its technological, administrative, management, and entrepreneurial forms with the latest methods.
Our course welcomes students who may have different backgrounds and professional experiences, but they share the willingness to increase their knowledge, and they are pushed by a strong determination to reach their goals. What identifies our trainees is the desire to acquire theoretical and practical expertise to succeed in dynamic contexts in the world of administration and management.
Content Outline
Our goal is to train professionals and teach them to face the challenges of innovation and change and apply their solutions to their own organizational context. We aim at shaping managerial and entrepreneurial mindsets, in order to see projects in light of their contribution to the growth of businesses and organizations.
The theoretical and practical aspects of Project Management are studied according to the latest methods.
The course also turns the student’s attention to strategic and administrative aspects, as well as the development of management and leadership skills.
Innovation is addressed from a management and entrepreneurial point of view to offer students a complete training, in relation also to economic and financial results.
The contents can be divided into the following areas of interest:
Project Management Methods
Strategy and Organization
Management and Leadership
Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Business Economics and Management
Candidates and Career Opportunities
Our Short Specialization Degree in Project Management and Innovation Management is aimed at people with different backgrounds and curricula. Our ideal candidate has a few years of experience on their shoulders working in businesses or public organizations.
A valid asset of our course has always been the wide number of professional profiles, backgrounds, and professional experiences of our trainees. As our alumni can assure, their different backgrounds have included industrial enterprises, service and information technology companies, counseling, research, engineering and design, public organizations, healthcare, financial services, utilities (for more information, click on
https://www.masterinnovazione.org/alumni.html
)
Program
Our program can be divided into five main areas:
Project Management Methods
The approach of the Project Management Institute (PMI)
Main life cycle phases of a project: Predictive, Iterative, Incremental, Agile, Hybrid, and the context they can be more effectively applied to
Main Agile methodologies: Scrum, XP, Lean; SAFE, DevOps
Strategy and Organization
Organizational analysis and planning
Organizational paradigms
Organizational governance
Management of change within organizations
Organizational innovation
Management and Leadership
Leadership and management: differences and complementarities
Assuming the management role and exercising leadership
Different styles of leadership
Working in teams and taking on the role of Team Leader
Effective communication and public speaking
Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Creating the concepts of product/service: assessing and selecting product concepts
Design Thinking
The profile and role of a Business Innovation Manager
Business Economics and Management
Operational and economic-financial performance
Performance indicators (Key Performance Indicators, or KPI)
Reading the economic-financial documents of an enterprise
Analyzing investments and project investments
Read more on:
https://www.masterinnovazione.org/#contenuti
FACULTY
Our Short Specialization Degree in Project Management and Innovation Management is held by the members of a multifaceted faculty, whose members can boast a long and thorough experience in the field of Project Management, and who will be able to provide our students with both theoretical skills and hands-on experience. Our most recent added members are former students who have gained relevant experience in this field, as evidence of the professional careers that can be followed by our alumni.
Read more about the members of our faculty at:
https://www.masterinnovazione.org/docenti.html
CERTIFICATION
Many attendees conclude their professional path with a certification of competences. Our course is built on the guidelines of the Project Management Institute (PMI), so it allows student to build up the skills necessary to obtain a professional certification issued by the PMI.
The completion of our course offers students the chance to obtain the Project Management Professional (PMP) certification of the Project Management Institute.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Scientific innovation
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
15
Maximum available spots:
60
First instalment:
€
									3.322,50
Second instalment:
€
									2.180,00
Selection process notice
Website
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
For more info
Read FAQs at:
https://www.masterinnovazione.org/faq.html
Classes start:
08/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padova
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							5.502,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Moreno Muffatto
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Ludovica Lembo
Phone:
0498276784
Email:
master.dii@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top