Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/psco-school-psychology/

Skip to content
Second level university master
PSCO
School psychology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
PSCO - School psychology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
PSCO - School psychology
The
Master in School Psychology
trains professionals to work based on the complex requests within the school context. By presenting several tools, methods, and practices, this course stimulates a
reasoned reflection based on intersubjective, relational and contextual  mechanisms
behind possible displays of distress, required to set up a plan according to the actual needs.
The Master provides updates on classic and more recent topics, linked to technological development and sustainability.
Educational content
The
Master in School Psychology
is developed from an ecological model, according to which certain displays of discomfort in individuals should also be interpreted at a systemic level. This course provides up-to-date knowledge and training on assessment, planning and implementation skills, by including both tackling and – above all – prevention and protection interventions, addressing the entire school community.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Master in School Psychology
is addressed to psychologists interested in working in schools, or who are already working in this context, and who wish to improve their skills, by acquiring planning elements, tools, new competences and updates, both on classic and on recent and current topics.
Before the start of the course, a Master’s or five-year Degree in Psychology (LM-51) are required. Typical career opportunities include working as school psychologist, by gaining access to the selection calls periodically issued by the Headmasters to tackle the growing and emerging needs of students, professors, school staff and parents. Those calls can only be accessed with a specific degree, and the Project Work implemented as on-hands training experience could be the chance to network and launch or strengthen a partnership with school institutions.
Course program
The
Master in School Psychology
provides in-depth knowledge on four different areas:
Module 1 – INTRODUCTION (13-14 December):
it provides an overview of school psychology, especially with reference to the Italian context Some of the topics covered include:
School psychology: past, present and future
Fundamentals of school laws
Module 2 – PREVENTION AND PROMOTION (Intensive week 20-24 January):
it provides tools and intervention models for each area treated. Some of the topics covered include:
Preventing psychological distress
Intervention methods and models
Motivating teachers, students and parents
Promoting organizational well-being
New technologies: potential and limits
Module 3 – ENHANCEMENT (11-12 April):
it focuses on enhancement tools and methods in the three areas
Inclusion and strategic enhancement
Community assessment and networking
Soft skills: promotes creativity, resilience, decision-making skills, critical thinking
Module 4 – WELL-BEING (20-21 June):
it develops some proposals to promote physical/mental well-being, also in relationship to the environmental context. Some of the topics covered include:
School environment and well-being
Physical activity, sleep and health
Teaching system
The
Master in School Psychology
includes in-classroom lessons that offer a chance to interact with the professors, and stimulate a debate and exchange between students. The first weekend will be held on December 2024 (13-14) with an introduction to the course, and some planning and school law elements. The intensive week will be held in January (20-24) and it will cover both classic topics, such as psychological distress, motivation and organizational well-being, and more recent ones, including a conscious use of technology. A module will focus on strengthening the effectiveness assessment capacity concerning the areas covered.
The second weekend, in April (11-12) will be devoted to emotional and strategic enhancement, inclusion and networking, and soft skills and resilience promotion. Lastly, the third weekend (20-21 June) will concern the promotion of well-being and health in physical and social environments.
The course is completed by a Project Work, which will end with a paper and a debate during the final exam.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Mind and psycho-physical well-being
End of classes:
19/07/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
10
Maximum available spots:
36
First instalment:
€
									1.672,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.050,00
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
How will the course be structured?
There will be five synchronous online lessons and twenty blended activities, as indicated in the lesson calendar available on the poster. Each blended activity will be held remotely, and will include:
(a) A short presentation of the task by the professor, which may include problem-solving, case studies, project definition, critical reflection on a specific topic;
(b) Task completion;
(c) Task submission.
Will there be an internship?
No, there will be a Project Work on a topic agreed with the Master Director. It consists in developing a research/project to be implemented in schools, with proven effectiveness. It may be done individually or in groups, and it will be referred to in the final exam.
Does the title give access to calls to work in schools?
Of course. The course ends with the discussion of a final exam, which references the Project Work, and with the attainment of a Master’s Diploma in School Psychology, valid as title to access calls for school psychologists, as one of the possible admission criteria.
Where will the lessons be held?
The three weekends and an intensive week will be held in Via Venezia 12, Padova. The rest of the course will be held remotely, mainly through case resolution training and planning, with subsequent online debate. Mandatory attendance is at least 70% of the lessons and activities.
Where can I find more information?
For further requests, please write to angelica.moe@unipd.it or to master.psicologiascolastica@unipd.it
Classes start:
13/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
blended
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.722,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Angelica Moè
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Prof. Angelica Moè
Phone:
049 8276689
Email:
master.psicologiascolastica@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top