Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/psitmos-psychology-of-traffic-and-sustainable-mobility/

Skip to content
Post graduate programme
PSITMOS
Psychology of Traffic and Sustainable Mobility
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
PSITMOS - Psychology of Traffic and Sustainable Mobility
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Post graduate programme
>
PSITMOS - Psychology of Traffic and Sustainable Mobility
The
Post-Graduate Course in Psychology of Traffic and Sustainable Mobility
trains psychologists on the prevention of road accidents and the promotion of sustainable mobility – core points among Psychology of Traffic objectives, that is the protection of public health with reference to road traffic and mobility quality (CNOP, 2013).
The course provides the skills to
plan change-promoting interventions
in mobility habits, assess driving capacities, and train professionals and amateur road users. The course is multidisciplinary, through the presence of external experts belonging to different disciplines, and includes theoretical modules and hands-on applications, through classroom lessons, seminars and testimonials.
Learning content
The
Post-Graduate Course in Psychology of Traffic and Sustainable Mobility
dwells on topics such as the evaluation of road user behaviours, the psychological and emotional processes linked to risk perception, and the choice of transport mode.
The learning modules include classroom lessons, testimonials and seminars, mostly held by external experts belonging to different sectors of psychology and other fields, such as doctors and engineers. Lessons will promote
active participation
. Constant interaction supports class learning and involvement on the topics treated, also through hands-on activities, with
driving style detection tools and cognitive safe driving pre-requisites
, emotional reaction training tools, and debates on topics such as the promotion of behavioural change and ethical AI aspects with respect to automated driving. In this way, the course will promote also cross-sectional competences, through group-class cooperation. Moreover, the final report or project work will require students to implement the knowledge acquired during the course, in a proactive project, in one of the sectors the courses focuses on.
Recipients and career opportunities
The
Post-Graduate Course in Psychology of Traffic and Sustainable Mobility
is addressed to Psychology graduates with a Bachelor or Master’s Degree, and trains Traffic Psychologist professionals, as set out in the CNOP (2013;
https://www.psy.it/allegati/aree-pratica-professionale/psicologo_del_traffico.pdf
)
.
Career perspectives include collaboration and consultancy services toward:
School institutions;
Companies and public administrations;
Driving schools and automotive education centres;
Companies providing automotive services for public transport;
Enterprises and companies that promote road safety, and accident prevention in private mobility and in progress;
Local Medical Commissions that ascertain the fitness to drive.
The professional competences provided help to collaborate with other professional figures to plan
road safety promotion and road accident prevention
interventions, assess the fitness to drive, organize campaigns and actions to manage the people’s mobility demand, training of professional and non-professional drivers, also through the ability to use psychological tools to regulate emotions, and measure driving styles and cognitive pre-requisites.
Program
The
Post-Graduate Course in Psychology of Traffic and Sustainable Mobility
develops through the following learning modules:
Module 1 – THE ROLE OF TRAFFIC PSYCHOLOGY IN SOCIETY
Safety and sustainable mobility: scope of intervention and perspectives
Mobility Management regulations and instruments
Module 2 – UNDERSTANDING AND CONTROLLING EMOTIONS
Emotional guide and control
Psycho-physiological training for emotional control
Anger control
Cognitive-behavioural intervention techniques for emotional control and promotion of adaptive behaviours
Module 3 – SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY
Psychology in the Mobility Management professional field
Cultural and environmental transition of mobility
The Mobility Manager as facilitator of psycho-social change in individuals and populations
Mobility Management: guidelines and good practices
Module 4 – AUTONOMOUS DRIVING AND TRANSPORT SYSTEMS
Social and psychological factors implied in the transition to automated driving, also in reference to the ethical issues linked to the use of AI in automated driving
Individual and group attitudes and behaviours toward technological systems
Human factors in transport systems and theoretical aspects concerning vehicular flow and the impact road users’ behaviours have on them
Module 5 – SAFE DRIVING FACTORS
Psychological constructs of the safe driving behaviour, with a focus on distractions
Safe driving: models and methods for a psychometric assessment of attentional prerequisites
Driver Behavior Questionnaire
and
Attitudes toward traffic safety
surveys, as alternatives to self-reported driving behaviour measures
Simulated drive: theoretical and practical implications in the use of driving simulators as assessment tools
Module 6 – FITNESS TO DRIVE EVALUATION
Fitness to drive evaluation in at-risk populations: personal and cognitive variables and their mediators
Distortive conduct within medical examiner verifications during the evaluation of the fitness to drive: tools and methods
The
Vienna Test System
DRIVESC to assess driving prerequisites
Traffic psychology professional area
Traffic Psychology is a psychological intervention area
widespread in Europe, however, as highlighted in a document by the Consiglio Nazionale
dell’Ordine degli Psicologi (CNOP, 2013, for further information, see:
https://www.psy.it/allegati/aree-pratica-professionale/psicologo_del_traffico.pdf
), not yet
sufficiently developed in Italy.
Key topics are focused on the psychological processes behind road users’ behaviours,and on planning and implementing interventions to induce a safer, more sustainable
road behaviour. The general purpose of the course is to help to reduce health-related risks
implied in mobility behaviours and connected to the use of all transport means,
without excluding pedestrians, who represent a non-negligible share of the so-called
‘vulnerable’ road users, given the high risk of fatal outcomes in case of accident. The scope concerns
both road safety and sustainable mobility, aspects of great relevance
for public health protection and for goals 3, 4 and 11 of the Sustainable Development Agenda 2030.
Information
Thematic area:
Mind and psycho-physical well-being
End of classes:
30/09/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
8
Maximum available spots:
50
Single instalment:
€
									552,50
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
Where will in-classroom lessons be held?
In-classroom lessons will be held at the Scuola di Psicologia, Via Venezia 12, 35131, Padua.
Will there be an internship/apprenticeship?
No, there will not be an internship.
What are the minimum attendance requirements?
Minimum attendance requirements are set to at least 70% of the total hours.
Will there be any exams during the course?
There will be a final exam for all modules.
Will there be a final exam before obtaining the title?
At the end of the course, a final dissertation or project work is mandatory, which will be assessed to obtain the title.
Classes start:
14/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padova
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
15
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							552,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof.ssa Mariaelena Tagliabue
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Prof.ssa Mariaelena Tagliabue
Phone:
049 8276598
Email:
mariaelena.tagliabue@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top