Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/rebio-research-biobanking/

Skip to content
First level university master
REBIO
Research Biobanking
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
REBIO - Research Biobanking
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
REBIO - Research Biobanking
The
Master in Research Biobanking
provides training on the development and structure, management, equipment and challenges of biobanks, as well as on the sector’s networking opportunities.
The goal is preparing expert professionals in relevant fields, such as:
National and international biobanks
Medical and base research
Pharmaceutical industry
Diagnostic companies
Learning content
In detail, the
Master in Research Biobanking
prepares students on how to establish and implement a biobank at national and international level, and on how to apply knowledge on:
structure organization, quality management, risk and legal representation of a biobank;
infrastructure implementation (including IT), budget drafting;
sustainable biobank management;
biobank sample management and ELSI aspects;
epidemiology, biostatistics, and research fields;
theoretical knowledge and hands-on ability on team and scientific project management.
Moreover, it prepares students on how to identify international projects in the biobank and structure networking field.
Recipients and career opportunities
The
Master in Research Biobanking
is addressed to graduates in natural, medical, pharmaceutical sciences or in biomedical engineering application areas.
It is also addressed to students interested in the biobank application and activities sector, and those interested in acquiring specific skills in the technical and legal field relating to the management of biological material and the biobanking process.
Titles admitted to the Master:
Biotechnologies
Pharmaceutical and industrial biotechnologies
Medical biotechnologies
Chemistry
Pharmaceutical and industrial chemistry and technology
Pharmacy
Law
Biomedical and material engineering
Industrial technology engineering
Medical engineering
Medicine and surgery
Veterinary medicine
Orthodontics and dental prosthetics
Biological sciences
Competences acquired:
Management of a research biobank processes and protocols;
Independent judgement: assessment of objectives, roles, activities, organizational methods, research biobank activities, and support to research projects;
Communication abilities in promoting the organizational development of a research biobank within an institutional organization and/or network;
Ability to learn useful methods to promote, coordinate, and manage biobanking processes and responsibilities, and to support applied biomedicine research projects.
Program
The
Master in Research Biobanking
provides specific training on the following topics:
LEGAL AREA
Module 1 –
Legal aspects 1
: general and privacy-related (GDPR) legal aspects
Module 2 –
Legal aspects 2
: specific law; risk level assessment according to Article 110.
Module 3 –
Ethical aspects
: informed consent and ethical aspects concerning biobanks.
Module 4 –
Organization and management:
risk management.
Module 5 –
Project Management
in the healthcare sector: principles, functions, methodologies; project managers and interaction with the organizational structure.
MEDICAL AREA
Module 6 –
Introduction to research biobanking
: basic knowledge, responsibilities, coordination.
Module 7 –
Organization and management 1
: business models and sustainability.
Module 8 –
Organization and management 2
: multidisciplinary group management.
BIOMEDICAL TECHNICAL AREA
Module 9 –
Sample collection and management
: collection, management, quality control.
Module 10 –
Biobanking IT
: IT infrastructure (Hardware/Software).
Module 11 –
Research biobanks, epidemiology, and active patient involvement:
epidemiology research methods.
Module 12 –
Quality management and quality control
: fundamentals of quality management systems (QMS), ISO 9001:2015, ISO 20387:2018, quality control (QC).
Module 13 –
Organization and management
.
Module14 –
National and European research infrastructure:
BBMRI-ERIC, the Italian BBMRI.it hub, research projects.
Module 15 –
Research methods 1
: biobanking and AI.
Module 16 –
Research methods 2
: organoid biobank and clinical applications.
Module 17 –
Research methods 3
: organ transplants and biobanking: pancreas or pancreatic insula transplants.
Module 18 –
Research methods 4
: tissue, patient-derived organoid (PDO) and organ on chip biobank.
Module 19 –
Research methods 4
: innovative strategies for tissue engineering.
Module 20 –
Pathological Anatomy and biobanks
: suitability of the organic tissue material collection.
Master in BBMRI.IT infrastructure
The Master is developed within the BBMRI.it framework (
https://www.bbmri.it
): national European biobank and biomolecular resource research infrastructure hub (BBMRI-ERIC:
https://www.bbmri-eric.eu
). It involves biobanks, biological resource centres and collections, and three common services (Quality Management CS, Information Technology CS, ELSI CS for ethical, legal and social matters).
BBMR.it supports the Master formation program with professors and with the  National Recovery and Resilience Plan’s Project:
Strengthening of the Biobanking and Biomolecular Resources Research Infrastructure of Italy
CUP B53C22001820006.
With BBMRI.it, students enrolled in the Master will have the chance to interact directly with:
new biobanks on the technical and scientific forefront, specific collections (organoids, microbiome, induced pluripotent staminal cells, and adult progenitor cells).
Network Italiano delle Core Facilities (NICo) with expertise in sample characterization.
ELSI Common Service and IT Common Service, plus a Work Package dedicated to the correct standardization and improved use of sample-related data (FAIR Principles).
International networks through the BBMRI-ERIC European infrastructure (
https://www.bbmri-eric.eu
).
BBMRI.it funds scholarships to the participants to specific training projects.
Teaching system
The Master comprises 300 hours of course: 84 h of synchronous lessons, 90 h of remote lessons, 80 h of lab, 10 h of practice, 30 h of seminars, and 6 h of expert testimonials. Synchronous lessons, seminars and expert testimonials will be mainly held online. The hours in attendance in biobanks, biological sample processing, biology and pathological anatomy labs, etc. will be held remotely whenever possible, that is, when the students/professors direct remote interaction with images/videos can have the same educational meaning as the same in-person interaction.
There will be visits to active research biobanks in the Veneto region and/or connected to BBMRI.it (
https://www.bbmri.it
) national European biobank and biomolecular resource research infrastructure hub (BBMRI-ERIC) (
https://www.bbmri.it
).
Information
Thematic area:
Innovazione scientifica e trasferimento tecnologico
End of classes:
30/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
15
First instalment:
€
									2.022,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.000,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
Will there be an internship/apprenticeship?
Technical internship days will be included in modules 15-16-17-18-19-20.
Will there be visits to research biobanks?
Yes, There will be visits to active research biobanks in the Veneto region and/or connected to BBMRI.it (National European biobank and biomolecular resource research infrastructure hub (BBMRI-ERIC) (
https://www.bbmri.it
).
Will there be any forms of facilitation?
BBMRI.it is evaluating the possibility of providing scholarships to the participants of training projects, including this Master.
If this opportunity will be activated, students will be informed before the start of the Master.
What are the minimum attendance requirements?
No more than 25% of the total hours.
Will there be seminars with leading experts, part of national and international network programs?
Yes, there will be lectures by specialists of the BBMRi.it and BBMRI.ERIC hub.
Classes start:
11/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padova
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
Dual-mode
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.822,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Marco Agostini
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Giovanna Di Turi
Phone:
049 821 8270
Email:
giovanna.dituri@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top