Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/riben-rehabilitation-in-thermal-environments-and-wellness-and-lifestyle-medicine/

Skip to content
Second level university master
RIBEN
Rehabilitation in Thermal Environments and Wellness and Lifestyle Medicine
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
RIBEN - Rehabilitation in Thermal Environments and Wellness and Lifestyle Medicine
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
RIBEN - Rehabilitation in Thermal Environments and Wellness and Lifestyle Medicine
The two-year
Second-Level Short Specialisation Degree
in Rehabilitation in Thermal Environments and Wellness and Lifestyle Medicine
helps professionals acquire innovative chronic disease management skills, through integrated, multi-disciplinary approaches, and new technologies.
The course’s purpose is
providing knowledge and inter-disciplinary competences
on the different aspects of prevention, rehabilitation and wellness medicine. In particular, purpose of the Master is training healthcare professionals capable of applying
thermal medicine and rehabilitative medicine methods
with preventive, therapeutic and wellness maintenance aim.
Educational content
The
Second-Level Short Specialisation Degree
in Rehabilitation in Thermal Environments and Wellness and Lifestyle Medicine
treats the traditional approaches, innovative interventions and new technologies of physical and rehabilitative medicine, and of preventive and wellness medicine. Particular focus is devoted to cutting-edge rehabilitation and prevention aspects in a thermal environment, including the most advanced and complex treatments, such as robot therapy and balnotherapy.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Second-Level Short Specialisation Degree
in Rehabilitation in Thermal Environments and Wellness and Lifestyle Medicine
is addressed to professionals with the following (or equivalent) titles:
Master’s degree in Medicine and Surgery, Master’s degree in Biology, Master’s degree in Cognitive Science, Master’s degree in Sport Science and Techniques, Master’s degree in Preventive and Adaptive Physical Activity Science and Techniques, Master’s Degree in Science of Healthcare and Rehabilitation Professions, Master’s degree in Science of Technical Healthcare Professions, Master’s degree in Science of Preventive Healthcare Professions, Master’s Degree in Science of Nutrition.
The
Second-Level Short Specialisation Degree
trains healthcare professionals to place in
medical-care paths managing complex patients
, and it provides accurate and updated answers on rehabilitation, wellness and lifestyle medicine interventions. The inter-disciplinary nature of the course allows
multiple job and career opportunities
: thermal facilities, care centres, research centres, prevention centres and rehabilitative facilities.
Course program
The
Second-Level Short Specialisation Degree
in Rehabilitation in Thermal Environments and Wellness and Lifestyle Medicine
provides in-depth training on the following thematic modules:
Module 1 – Physical and rehabilitative medicine
: basic principles, diagnosis, prognosis and treatment.
Module 2 – Rehabilitation in a thermal environment:
chemical-physical principles, biological interactions, organization and environment regulations.
Module 3
– Qualitative and quantitative
outcome measures in physical and rehabilitative medicine
, global and special assessments.
Module 4 – Main rehabilitation-related diseases:
organ damage and functional deficits, activity and participation limitations.
Module 5 – Rehabilitation and new technologies
, advanced assessments, man-machine integration.
Module 6 – Biology
of human tissues, anatomy and physiology of skeletal and neuromuscular systems.
Module 7 – Pharmacology in physical and rehabilitative medicine
: fundamentals of pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, for the main classes of rehabilitation-related medicines.
Module 8 – Nutrition:
principles of food science, nutrition as prevention and nutrition as treatment.
Module 9 – Technological rehabilitation:
basic technological principles applied to rehabilitation, virtual reality in rehabilitation, robotics in rehabilitation, new technological rehabilitation perspectives, automated systems.
The role of physical and rehabilitative medicine in neurology, as prevention and treatment of:
Module 10 – Rehabilitation of geriatric patients
Module 11 – Rehabilitation of paediatric patients
Module 12 – Rehabilitation of neurological patients
Module 13 – Sports rehabilitation
Module 14 – Rehabilitation of patients with rheumatological pathologies
Module 15 – Rehabilitation of patients with cardiopulmonary pathologies
Module 16 – Rehabilitation of cancer patients
Module 17 – Economic and legal aspects of new medicine technologies
: current regulations on the use of new technologies in medicine, law and healthcare, management and healthcare economy.
Module 18 – Rehabilitation research methodology:
scientific research in thermal rehabilitation, rehabilitation research protocols.
Module 19 – Hydrogeology
: fundamentals of geological sciences, hydrogeology, hydrogeology and health, thermal basins.
Module 20 – Microbiology:
fundamentals of microbiology, microbiota in human beings, microbiology and rehabilitation.
COURSE’S PECULIARITIES
The
Second-Level Short Specialisation Degree
has an innovative approach, since it forms professionals in the field of rehabilitation and prevention that can act not just to limit the consequences of an onset disease, but also to prevent a deterioration of the physical well-being, and,
in general, to ensure a better life quality.
This last aspect is a very current, and strategical topic. Indeed, the world population is growing, and ageing is a reality we experience. One of the keys for successful ageing is preserving a suited physical-metal well-being. And rehabilitation is favoured by the knowledge of
primary and secondary prevention methods
, since it helps to act on how the different body systems work in an integrated manner.
Admission and teaching mode
The
Second-Level Short Specialisation Degree
comprises lessons, workshops and traineeships.
Lessons
are provided in
digital mode and registered
by the professors, to make them available on the relevant
digital platform,
as study material, for the entire duration of the course. Therefore, students can follow the lessons independently, without limits of visualization (within the overall course duration). At the end of the lessons,
workshop activities
will be held, which are an integral part of the course. There will also be traineeship activities in dedicated facilities and hospital units.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2023/24 will be published on the Italian page of this
Second-Level Short Specialisation Degree
according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
29/09/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
12
Maximum available spots:
30
First instalment:
€
									1.822,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.206,50
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
How will the assessment be structured?
There will be a final written and oral exam.
Can the lesson be followed remotely?
Yes, the lessons are recorded, so they can be followed remotely, without any visualization limit.
Each video will be available for the entire Course duration (2 years).
Is there a minimum attendance threshold?
Yes, students must attend at least 70% of all the course hours.
Will there be any forms of facilitation?
No, the
Second-Level Short Specialisation Degree
does not offer any scholarship.
Classes start:
01/11/2023
Duration:
Two-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
Distance learning
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.029,00
Pre-enrolment deadline:
06/10/2023
Management
Prof. Stefano Masiero
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Stefano Masiero
Phone:
049 8213358
Email:
medicinafisica.neuroscienze@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top