Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/spcl-research-methodology-and-clinical-experimentation/

Skip to content
Second level university master
SPCL
Research methodology and clinical experimentation
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
SPCL - Research methodology and clinical experimentation
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
SPCL - Research methodology and clinical experimentation
The
Second-level short specialisation degree
in Research Methodology and Clinical Experimentation
prepares specialised professionals  in order to conceptualise, design, and manage all phases of research and clinical trials of medicines for human use as well as devices, and to critically analyse the results.
The course provides advanced knowledge and skills in the field, in light of current regulations and the most recent scientific advances, from the drafting of the study protocol, including the definition of the statistical analysis plan, to the conduct and management of the study, up to the processing of the data for their presentation to a regulatory agency and/or a scientific publication.
Educational content
The training activities of the
Second-level short specialisation degree
in Research Methodology and Clinical Experimentation
develop the knowledge and skills for the application of the theoretical and practical tools necessary for the correct design, conduct and management of a clinical trial.
The course is developed through the acquisition of knowledge based on methodologies, but also on the design of the study protocol in all its phases, on the monitoring of the study, on the evaluation of the effectiveness and tolerability of the treatment and on the analysis of the results obtained with state-of-the-art techniques.
The Second-level short specialisation degree includes theoretical and practical activities and includes an internship period during which the student will have the opportunity to gain clinical research experience in the field by studying specific aspects addressed in class.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Second-level short specialisation degree
in Research Methodology and Clinical Experimentation
trains professionals to be experts, capable of conceiving, designing, and managing all phases of research and clinical trials of medicines for human use as well as devices, and of critically analysing the results.
These skills can be used in either the
private or public sector
, qualifying students as specialised professionals in healthcare companies, hospitals, clinical research support units, clinical trial centres, and contract research organisations (CROs).
Course programme
The
Second-level short specialisation degree
in Research Methodology and Clinical Experimentation
includes the following modules:
MODULE I: THE DESIGN OF A MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Introduction to the drug design and development process
MODULE II: CLINICAL RESEARCH METHODOLOGY
Design and conduct of randomized clinical trials
Design and conduct of observational studies
Evaluation of scientific evidence
Sample size
MODULE III: REGULATIONS AND BIOETHICS
GDPR/GCP Regulations
Ethics
MODULE IV:
PLANNING AND ORGANISING AN EXPERIMENT
Study protocol
Data management
Outcome assessment
Data monitoring
Pharmacovigilance
MODULE V
:
STATISTICS APPLIED TO CLINICAL RESEARCH
Statistical analysis for a randomised clinical trial
Statistical analysis for an observational study
Advanced methods (Machine Learning Techniques) for designing, conducting, and analysing clinical studies: opportunities and applications
Internships and participating institutions
In compliance with the general criteria set out in the annex to Decree-law no. 1255 of 26/11/2021, unlike other Short specialisation degree’s courses in the Biostatistics Unit of the Department of Cardio-Thoracic-Vascular Sciences and Public Health, all the training, theoretical and practical activities will be carried out in person and including internships at participating institutions:
Clinical Trial Centre
– internship at a university or hospital clinical research centre involved in the management or conduct of clinical trials
Clinical research support unit
– internship at a clinical research unit or other clinical research support facility
Hospital pharmacy or hospital analytical laboratory
– internship in a hospital pharmacy or analytical laboratory involved in the management of clinical studies
Clinical unit (inpatient or outpatient unit)
– internship at a hospital operating unit (inpatient and/or outpatient unit) involved in the conduct of clinical studies
Cros
– internship at a contract research organisation
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Second-level short specialisation degree according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
75%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
40
First instalment:
€
									2.922,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.900,00
Selection process notice
La graduatoria generale di merito per l’a.a. 2024/2025 sarà disponibile qui, secondo le tempistiche dell’avviso di selezione.
FAQ
Is there a compulsory attendance percentage?
Yes, the percentage is 75%, including the internship or apprenticeship period.
How is teaching organized?
The Second-level short specialisation degree takes place in person, in modernly equipped classrooms at the University of Padua.
Will there be exams throughout the course? What will the final exam be like?
At the end of each module, students will have to take an
exam
to test the skills acquired, and this will contribute to the overall grade.
The course will conclude with a
final exam
(oral), where diploma candidates will present their papers written with the support and guidance of a tutor during the apprenticeship or internship.
Will there be any form of facilitation or scholarship?
There is no registration fee for students with disabilities, who have a disability with invalidity between 66% and 100% or with certification pursuant to law n.104, who will therefore only pay the pre-enrolment fee, the insurance and stamp duty
PA110 with Honors
: Public Administration employees who enroll in our master’s degree enjoy a discount of 330 euros on the contribution of the second installment
There is the possibility of supernumerary enrolment for
University staff
in order to allow continuous and permanent updating. The enrolment fee for the technical and administrative staff of the University is parameterised to the minimum enrolment fee set out in art. 24, paragraph 1 of these Regulations, and is equal to 20% of the quota. In the event that the technical and administrative staff of the University is in possession of the requirements for admission to the Course, once the course is completed, he/she will be able to obtain the relevant Diploma or Certificate; If they do not meet the admission requirements, they may be admitted as an auditor and obtain a certificate of participation
Classes start:
02/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							4.822,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof.ssa Giulia Lorenzoni
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Unit of Biostatistics, Epidemiology and Public Health
Phone:
3312601668
Email:
segreteria.master@ubep.unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top