Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/suv-urban-security-and-violence-management/

Skip to content
First level university master
SUV
Urban security and violence management
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
SUV - Urban security and violence management
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
SUV - Urban security and violence management
Our
Short Specialization Degree in Urban Security and Violence Management
aims at providing the skills necessary for dealing with safety and violence in an urban setting by following a network approach based on the cooperation among citizens, institutions, associations, companies, and law enforcement.
The course refers to the contents of the Decree-Law No. 14 of February 20
th
, 2017, coordinated with the Conversion Law No. 48 of April 18
th
, 2017 concerning
Urgent provisions for safety in cities,
and stating that urban security here means “that branch of public safety aimed at preventing illegal activities concentrated in the municipal area, and dealing with safety in cities, orderly coexistence, environment, and quality of local life”.
Moreover, our Short Specialization Degree follows an idea of urban development in line with the United Nations SDG 11 of the 2030 Agenda, which invites countries to “make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable”.
Educational content
The
Short Specialization Degree in Urban Safety and Fighting Violence
offers theoretical and operational training on the following topics:
Prevention, analysis and management of
events that negatively affect
urban living
Promotion of
urban coexistence and of the fight against discrimination
in communities
Promotion of
lawfulness
Promotion of
inclusion
Protection
of the territory and environmental safety
Urban health,
community well-being
and life quality
Fight against
gender violence
in public spaces
Prevention, analysis and management of
youth violence
in the cities
Offenders, victims and
restorative justice
Health safety
in the cities
Collective emergencies
and alarms
Students will acquire knowledge on
urban psychology
, urban security
design, construction and assessment
, institution-citizen
relationship management
,
work team leadership
during emergencies, and recognizing the
social need for security
in a territory.
Course target and career opportunities
Our
Short Specialization Degree in Urban Security and Violence Management
is addressed to graduates in psychological, sociological, political, legal and pedagogical sciences; administrators of public bodies (mayors, town officials such as architects, engineers, social workers, tax advisors, registry officers, accountants) and private institutions, urban town safety service officers; local Police, civil servants and private investigators who wish to acquire and explore specific competences in the
field of urban safety and the fight against violence
.
The Master trains professional figures such as:
Urban safety managers
in public and private sectors
Experts in
conflict reduction and violence contrasting strategies
in organizations and communities
Experts in
emergency
and urban crisis management
Experts in
promoting a culture
of lawfulness
Experts in
preventing violence
in urban areas
Experts in
psycho-social design
in urban areas
Program
Our
Short Specialization Degree in Urban Security and Violence Management
allows students to experience an interdisciplinary approach diving into three scientific areas: Psychological Science, Legal Science, and Social/Political Science. Students will learn how to put into practice their theoretical knowledge, thanks to the teachings of our best professors and some of the most active and renowned professionals in the field. The lectures are organized with an innovative approach and according to an educational perspective based on concrete case studies and cases presented by the students themselves. Students will also learn how to work autonomously through the development of a
project work
, which will give them the chance to offer immediate solutions to current and rising issues.
The program is divided into 16 topics:
Urban
psychology
and violence
Prejudice, conflicts, and
urban peace
Fundamentals of
leadership
and decision-making processes within organizations and politics
Gender and violence (victim and perpetrator, support networks)
Risks and communication strategies
Anthropology in
diverse urban contexts
: our fears in looking at the other
Governance
and coexistence in multiethnic districts (urban segregation and structural violence)
Safety
, mental health, social unrest
Urban contexts and
civil protection
Environmental safety
(climate change, disasters, protection of cities and citizens)
Justice,
criminology, victimology
Criminal law
and culture of legality (acquisitive crime and juvenile crimes)
Law, social change, and
organized crime
(fight against mafia groups, ecomafia)
Health security
(Management of emergencies and conflicts)
Terrorism,
security, and defense
Crisis management
At the end of the course, students will receive an
Open Badge
, a digital certificate stating their disciplinary knowledge, personal skills, and any acquired technical skills. Each Open Badge consists of a graphical element (a picture), and some specifications (metadata) which point to an acquired skill or competence, or an achieved goal, the method used to test it, who issued it, and the student’s identity. An Open Badge is guaranteed by the provider and it’s internationally recognized. The Badges are uploaded on a
dedicated platform
(
https://bestr.it/organization/show/65
), which uses an open-source format, and can be read by all applications that read Open Badge. Find out how to redeem your Open Badge and how to integrate it in your CV, or your professional social media account, here:
https://www.unipd.it/open-badge
Our partners
Municipality of Padua
ASSIV – Italian Association for Surveillance and Security Services
AIPSA – Italian Association Business Security Professionals
CIRSIM – Centro Interdipartimentale di Ricerca per gli Studi Interculturali e sulle Migrazioni (University of Padua)
LIBERA – Associations, Names and Numbers against Mafia
Laboratorio ANS di Ricerca multidisciplinare sulla qualità sociale, benessere, sviluppo umano
Casa della Memoria (House of Memory) – Brescia
Fondazione Banca Popolare Etica – Padua
FIABA – Association for diversity, inclusion, and accessibility for a world without barriers
Keep in touch with us
Follow us on social media to keep up to date with our initiatives!
On our
Facebook
page, you can find news, events, and lives.
On our
LinkedIn
, you can read about the latest updates concerning the job market in the field of urban security and violence management.
Our
YouTube
channel is rich in free, educational content! Take a look at our seminars, workshops, interviews and much more. Hit that subscribe button!
Follow us on
Instagram
to get a sneak peek of the latest posts, stories, and fun facts:
Click
here
and find us on the official website of the
FISPPA department
!
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2023/24 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
26/09/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
10
Maximum available spots:
40
First instalment:
€
									2.025,00
Second instalment:
€
									600,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
How are the lessons organized?
Teaching includes 210 hours spread over 18 weekends. Lessons will take place between November 2022 and September 2023, on Friday afternoons and on Saturdays. There are 90 additional hours to complete autonomously on Moodle. Attendance is mandatory for at least 70% of the total amount of hours and the course ends with a final project work.
Distance learning takes place on the Moodle platform of the University of Padua and includes several activities to be completed online in an asynchronous manner (e.g., debates among students, reading of additional material, discussions with teachers, exchange of tips concerning the project works).
Does the Short Specialization Degree include an internship?
No, it does not.
If I’m absent, will I be able to make up for lost time?
Yes, students who are absent for any reason can visit the Moodle platform dedicated to the course and watch the recorded video of any lesson they missed. There, they will also find the study material used by the teacher during the lesson (slideshows, articles, etc.).
What is a project work?
It is an individual project on a topic of interest for the student, completed under the supervision of a professor or tutor. It is 50 page long, on average
Where will classes take place?
Lessons will be carried out at the School of Psychology in Via Venezia 12, Padua. From the train station, the school is easily accessible by public transportation (5 minutes) or on foot (15 minutes). Students will receive information about any outdoor lessons once the course has started.
Where will the lessons be held?
The lessons will be held at the Scuola di Psicologia, Via Venezia 12, Padua, easily reachable with public transportation from the railway station (5 minutes) or by foot (15 minutes). Outdoor lessons will also be held, as notified during the course
Classes start:
22/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
Dual-mode
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.625,00
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2025
Pre-registration is currently not available
Management
Prof. Adriano Zamperini
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Prof.ssa Marialuisa Menegatto
Phone:
0498276943
Email:
master.sicurezzaurbana@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top