Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/tdl-science-and-technology-of-wood-and-wooden-products/

Skip to content
Second level university master
TDL
Science and Technology of Wood and Wooden Products
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
TDL - Science and Technology of Wood and Wooden Products
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
TDL - Science and Technology of Wood and Wooden Products
Not activated for the a.y. 2024/2025
The
Master in Science and Technology of Wood and Wooden Products
trains high-level specialists in the wood industry. The modules form technical experts with a deep knowledge of wood, from its molecular structure to its treatment and marketing methods.
At the end of the course, students will have acquired
an advanced knowledge of wood
, and a global vision of the challenges characterizing the entire supply chain, from raw material supply to construction works assessment.
Learning content
The
Master in Science and Technology of Wood and Wooden Products
includes two learning modules:
A preliminary section providing basic notions;
Study of wood, its supply and degradation;
Processes, qualification, structural design and marketing;
There will also be the option of completing a 3-month internship in a company.
A
wood technology expert
is capable of assessing the qualitative characteristics of forest-sourced wood or of wooden products from primary or secondary treatments, and knows how to choose the best wooden product based on different applications.
Recipients and career opportunities
The
Master in Science and Technology of Wood and Wooden Products
is mainly addressed to civil/constructions and material engineering graduates, and to earth sciences (forestry, agricultural engineering, chemistry, physics and biology) graduates, and also to architects and graduates interested in exploring and developing a competence in the wood sector.
Its purpose is forming wood technology experts, who will be employed in primary or secondary wood (or related components) treatment companies for specific products (e.g., paper and cardboard, floors, covering, packaging), in the wood construction sector, or in the furniture industry.
Program
The Master in Science and Technology of Wood and Wooden Products
provides in-depth learning through 4 specific modules:
Module 1 – PRELIMINARY SECTION
–
November-December 2024 (6 CFU)
This module covers preliminary topics to then develop the fundamental notions required. Plant and static biology basics, treated in a functional way to understand more specialized topics. The module includes the following courses:
Fundamentals of forestry
Fundamentals of engineering
Module 2 – FUNDAMENTALS
– January-April 2025 (21 CFU)
This module covers wood-related topics, concerning the different aspects linked to its nature, structure and composition. The module includes the following courses:
Wooden structures P1
Wood science and anatomy
Wood degradation and diagnosis
Wood qualification and classification
Processes and processing technologies
Module 3 – FUNDAMENTALS
– April-July 2025 (21 CFU)
This module dwells on a more complex dimension, where wood-related topics reach a higher level of complexity, both by using construction tools and by introducing composite materials, and by assessing its lifecycle and marketing opportunities. This module also includes several courses:
Wooden structures P2
BIM
Gluing and preservation
Environmental sustainability
Marketing
Module 4 – INTERNSHIP
– September – October 2025 (12 CFU)
The last level of education and skill development includes an internship in a company, where students will deal with local enterprises first hand, and try out the diversity and complexity of the dynamics involved in such contexts.
Teaching system
The
Master in Science and Technology of Wood and Wooden Products
provides 60 CFU in total, of which 48 CFU of blended learning (24 in classroom, 24 online) organized in 3 modules.
One part is developed online, with lessons on Tuesdays and Thursdays, from 5PM to 9PM, in 2-hour blocks (5-6:30PM; 7-8:30PM); and the other part is developed in classroom, on Fridays, from 9AM to 6PM, in 2-hour blocks (9-10:30AM; 11AM-12:30PM; 2-3:30PM; 4-5:30PM).
The three learning modules will be provided as follows:
Module 1: November – December 2024 (6 CFU)
Module 2: January – April 2025 (21 CFU)
Module 3: May – July 2025 (21 CFU)
The final internship (Module 4) will last 300h (12 CFU).
The faculty mainly comprises professors of the University of Padua, and also some recognized field professionals, to make the course even more practical.
Information
Thematic area:
Scientific innovation
End of classes:
04/07/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
10
Maximum available spots:
25
First instalment:
€
									2.222,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.300,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
Will there be any preferential requirements during the selection phase?
Having a work experience in the wood sector is a preferential requirement.
Is attendance mandatory?
Yes, mandatory attendance concerns at least 70% of the CFU provided.
Will there be a final exam?
Yes, there will be a final oral exam for all modules.
Where will the Master be held?
The Master will be held at the University of Padua – Agripolis Campus, Viale dell’Università, Legnaro (PD).
Classes start:
11/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Legnaro (PD)
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
blended
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.522,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Gianluca Tondi
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Agata Mannino
Phone:
049 8272768
Email:
masterlegno.tesaf@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top