Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/tip-pediatric-intensive-care/

Skip to content
Second level university master
TIP
Pediatric Intensive Care
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
TIP - Pediatric Intensive Care
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
TIP - Pediatric Intensive Care
The Master in
Pediatric Intensive Care
prepares to manage critically ill children, through specific skills, especially useful during emergencies.
Those skills are crucial, both in hospitals without a Pediatric Intensive Care Unit, and in those where this service is provided (increasingly widespread also in Italy).
The Course provides interactive EBM theoretical training, and exposure to ward activities, characterized by complex multi-specialty management of critically ill children, under the supervision of a tutor.
At the end of the course, and after passing the final exam, students will receive Second Level Master’s Degree in Pediatric Intensive Care.
Learning content
The Master in
Pediatric Intensive Care
prepares professionals on the physiology and physiophatology of critically ill children.
Students will learn how to manage emergency situations, both in Pediatric and in Pediatric Intensive Care Units, by recognizing the signs and symptoms of a critical pediatric patients or of worsening clinical conditions, understanding the meaning of lab and instrumental examinations.
Students will have the chance to acquire knowledge on organ failure situations, and on the related vital support and procedural sedation algorithm, concerning drug usage, airway support, and adverse event monitoring and management.
Also, the course will provide independence in assessing and selecting the diagnostic and therapeutic process in critically ill children, by formulating diagnostic hypotheses and identifying the related, most appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic paths.
It will perfect the students’ communication skills within a multiprofessional team, and with the patient and the family, in emergency and complex care situations.
Lastly, it will provide cultural learning skills, through EBM sources, and by applying research on the pediatric intensive care area
Recipients and career opportunities
The Master in
Pediatric Intensive Care
trains pediatrics and anesthesiologists in the pediatric intensive care sub-sector, from infants to young adults.
The professional figures trained by this Master are capable of managing critically ill pediatric patients, by identifying risk, emergency and organ failure situations, and by implementing the related treatment algorithm.
Career paths include Medical Director in the pediatric critical and semi-intensive area.
Program
The Master in
Pediatric Intensive Care
provides in-depth knowledge on the following topics:
Analgesia and sedation of children in Pediatric Intensive Care.
Procedural sedation.
Neurology in critical situations (head trauma, brain death, electrophysiological and ultrasound monitoring).
Refractory epileptic state (pharmacological management, algorithms).
Airway management (lessons and workshop).
Conventional ventilation (invasive and non-invasive, in the main obstructive or restrictive respiratory failure situations, and monitoring).
Advanced ventilation (Nitric Oxide, high-frequency ventilation, NAVA ventilation).
Hemodynamic management in critical situations: understanding of physiophatological contexts in children with normal cardiac anatomy and with congenital heart disease, management of acute heart failure, management and treatment of arrhythmia, hemodynamic monitoring.
Management of post-cardiac surgery patients.
ECMO (indications for veno-arterial and veno-venous ECMO, management and weaning).
VAD (indications, methods, and management of extra- and intra-corporeal VAD supports)
Dialytic support (peritoneal, hemodialysis, and CRRT).
Sepsis (septic shock management, bundles to prevent hospital infections).
Transportation of critically ill children (stabilization, monitoring).
Eco-guided vascular access (lessons and workshop).
Point-of-care echocardiography (FOCUS, E-FAST, echography of the various areas) (lessons and workshop).
Ethics in intensive care (ethical dilemmas, communication, palliative sedation).
ISO certification
The Pediatric Intensive Care Unit of the University Hospital of Padua has been certified since May 2006 according to Standard ISO 9001, then updated by ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 9001:2015, which defines the requirements to implement a quality management system, and thus improve the structure effectiveness and efficacy, and obtain and increase the users’ satisfaction.
Network
Since 2010, the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit of the University Hospital of Padua is part of the TIPNET Network (Pediatric Intensive Care NETwork), patrocinated by the Società di Anestesia e Rianimazione Neonatale e Pediatrica Italiana (SARNEPI).
The Network ensures data collection through a registry of inpatients in over 25 Italian Pediatric Intensive Care Units, as the option of collaborating with multi-hub studies.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
80%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
8
First instalment:
€
									1.672,50
Second instalment:
€
									1.000,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
How will the course be structured?
The course includes: lessons and interactive classes, hands-on skills and simulation workshops, practice, seminars, expert testimonials, internships, final exam.
Attendance includes one week per month, to be agreed with the Professor.
Internships will be held at the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit, under the direct supervision of a tutor, selected among the professors and the medical directors part of the Master faculty.
There will be seminars, in-person lessons and hands-on activity in the ward, integrated with personal study.
What will the final exam consist in?
The final exam will consist in the discussion of a dissertation, drafted under the tutor’s supervision.
A mandatory attendance of 80% of the activities is required to obtain the final title.
What will the workshops include?
Workshops are hands-on activities on a dummy, under the tutor’s supervision, in order to improve the student’s skills and then apply them on patients.
What are the Master's enrolment requirements?
A degree in Medicine and Surgery, Specialization in:
Pediatrics
Anesthesiology, Reanimation, Intensive Care and Pain Therapy
How many students are admitted each year?
The maximum number of students admitted to the Master in Pediatric Intensive Care is 8.
Classes start:
18/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padova
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.672,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof.ssa Angela Amigoni
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Andrea Fascina
Phone:
049 8218081
Email:
andrea.fascina@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top