Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/tipro-prostatic-hypertrophy-treatments/

Skip to content
Second level university master
TIPRO
Prostatic Hypertrophy Treatments
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
TIPRO - Prostatic Hypertrophy Treatments
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
TIPRO - Prostatic Hypertrophy Treatments
The
Master in Prostatic Hypertrophy Treatments
provides in-depth and detailed knowledge on the different treatment options available for prostatic hypertrophy, including pharmacological treatment, mini-invasive treatments, surgical techniques and innovative procedures. It also helps to develop the ability to evaluate and manage patients suffering from this condition, by exploring scientific research on field. Purpose of this Master is to train professionals expert in providing advanced and up-to-date care to patients suffering from benign prostatic hypertrophy.
Learning content
The
Master in Prostatic Hypertrophy Treatments
prepares students to:
Proving a solid understanding of the fundamental principles concerning diagnostic assessment and benign prostatic hypertrophy.
Articulating the theoretical foundations of the different approaches to benign prostatic hypertrophy.
Applying the knowledge acquired on diagnostic assessment to evaluate specific cases of benign prostatic hypertrophy.
Using the treatment options effectively in simulated or actual clinical contexts.
Performing critical evaluations of treatment options, based on scientific proof and individual patient’s needs.
Developing personalized management plans, taking specific clinical factors into account.
Communicating clearly and effectively with colleagues, patients, and OR personnel.
Presenting diagnostic information and treatment options in a clear way.
Proving to be able to update and expand the knowledge on benign prostatic hypertrophy and on new clinical practices.
Being aware of emerging trends and field research on how to manage benign prostatic hypertrophy and adapting accordingly.
Recipients and career opportunities
The
Master in Prostatic Hypertrophy Treatments
is addressed to all medical specialists who wish to acquire all the main knowledge and skills in the diagnostic assessment and the use of all benign prostatic hypertrophy treatments, also through the use of specific simulators.
Program
The
Master in Prostatic
Hypertrophy Treatments
provides specific knowledge on the following modules:
Module 1 – MEDICAL THERAPY IN THE TREATMENT OF BENIGN PROSTATIC HYPERTROPHY
Medical treatment options
Medical evaluation before selecting the treatment
Clinical discussion
Conclusions and importance of the patient-doctor collaboration
Additional resources
Module 2 – BENIGN PROSTATIC HYPERTROPHY DIAGNOSTIC
Standard diagnostic methods
Symptoms and parameters evaluation
Role of instrumental exams in the diagnosis
Importance of the patient’s history
Imaging exams result interpretation
Early benign prostatic hypertrophy diagnosis
Module 3 – SEXUALITY IN PATIENTS WITH BENIGN PROSTATIC HYPERTROPHY
Impact of benign prostatic hypertrophy on the sexual function
Insight into correlated sexual symptoms
Strategies to manage related sexual issues
Medical treatments to manage sexuality
Practical tips to improve the quality of sexual life
Module 4 – PROSTATE SURGICAL ANATOMY
Study of prostate anatomy
Anatomical structures involved in the different types of surgeries
Relation between anatomy and surgical choices
Insight on prostatic vascularization and innervation
Anatomical implications in post-surgery complications
Discussion on innovations in anatomical understanding
Module 5 – METABOLIC SYNDROME IN BENIGN PROSTATIC HYPERTROPHY
Connections between metabolic syndrome and benign prostatic hypertrophy
Implications on the progression of benign prostatic hypertrophy
Insight on common risk factors between metabolic syndrome and benign prostatic hypertrophy
Role of a healthy diet and lifestyle
Impact of metabolic syndrome treatments on prostatic health
Integrated management approaches
Module 6 – BENIGN PROSTATIC HYPERTROPHY PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY
Introduction to Pathological Anatomy
Pathological alterations in benign prostatic hypertrophy
Differential diagnosis
Role of biopsy
New discoveries in Pathological Anatomy
Practical insights
Module 7 – ENUCLEATION TECHNIQUES WITH HOLMIUM IN IPB (HOLEP)
Introduction to the technique
Steps of the surgical procedure
Short and long-term results
Considerations in the selection of patients for the technique
Comparison with other surgical treatment methods
Insight on the skills necessary to perform the technique
Module 8 – USE OF THE LASER IN THE TREATMENT OF BENIGN PROSTATIC HYPERTROPHY
Photovaporization of prostate adenoma with Green Laser
Fundamental principles of the use of laser in the benign prostatic hypertrophy
Differences between laser types used
Pros and cons of laser treatment compare to other methods
Specific indications for laser use in patients with benign prostatic hypertrophy
Management of related complications
Review of scientific evidence supporting the laser effectiveness
Module 9 – OTHER ULTRA-MINI-INVASIVE TREATMENTS FOR BENIGN PROSTATIC HYPERTROPHY (UMIST)
Overview of ultra-mini-invasive treatments
REZUM
UroLift
iTIND
Clinical cases and practical experiences;
Role in the context of benign prostatic hypertrophy management
Master's added value
The opportunity to use specific simulator concerning the techniques presented, will provide the technical skills and basic fundamentals to start the treatments, after completing the Master.
Also, the chance to interact directly with the companies producing and marketing the different devices will allow students to obtain crucial additional technical information to start the treatments in their practice.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
27/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
10
Single instalment:
€
									3.022,50
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
Will there be the option of using specific simulators for the different techniques employed?
Of course. There will be simulator sessions for TURP, HOLEP, PVP, REZUM and Chirurgia Robotica da Vinci.
Will there be an interactive debate on complex clinical cases?
Yes, through interactive paths, students will learn how to select the best treatment strategy for each patient.
Will the educational material be made available?
Yes, the majority of the procedures carried out will be recorded, and the videos will be made available to the students.
Is there the option of setting up the lesson dates with the professors?
This will be possible on most cases. If feasible, dates will be set up also based on the students’ requests.
Classes start:
09/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padova
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
Distance learning
Total enrolment fee:
€
							3.022,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Fabrizio Dal Moro
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Giovanna Di Turi
Phone:
049 8218270
Email:
didattica.discog@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top