Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/tm-manual-therapy-and-musculoskeletal-physiotherapy/

Skip to content
First level university master
TM
Manual Therapy and Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
TM - Manual Therapy and Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
TM - Manual Therapy and Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy
The
First-level Short Specialisation degree
in Manual Therapy and Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy
prepares physiotherapists to assess patients, plan and perform physiotherapy treatments, including manual therapy techniques and therapeutic workouts, in line with the quality standards of the “International Federation of Orthopaedic Manipulative Physical Therapists” (IFOMPT) and the “Gruppo Terapia Manuale e Fisioterapia Muscoloscheletrica” (GTM).
The purpose of the course is, through a
bio-psycho-social approach
, to harmonize the knowledge of scientific literature with functional diagnosis procedures, clinical thinking, identification of personalized therapeutic goals, effective treatment selection and result verification,
concerning neuro-musculoskeletal conditions.
Educational content
The
First-level Short Specialisation degree
in Manual Therapy and Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy
provides specific training on:
Preparatory subjects for manual therapy;
Manual therapy methods and methodology;
Manual therapy techniques concerning the upper quadrant, lower quadrant, spine and temporomandibular joints;
Research methodology.
The course will include workshops where students can simulate manual therapy techniques and clinical traineeship. Moreover, students will be guided in the production and presentation of a project work (dissertation) that will be discussed during the final exam. Apart from the final exam, the two-year course includes one/two written tests on basic subjects and two written and practical exams on manual therapy.
Course target and career opportunities
The
First-level Short Specialisation degree
in Manual Therapy and Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy
is addressed to physiotherapy healthcare professionals, and provides them specialist skills on manual therapy.
The requirements for access are:
University Diploma in: Physiotherapy
Bachelor’s Degree in Physiotherapy
Healthcare professionals (L. 1/2002, art. 10, para. 1) – Physiotherapist
After the course, students can find work as free practitioners in professional practices, as physiotherapists in rehabilitation units of the National Healthcare Service, and in sports associations.
Course program
The
First-level Short Specialisation degree
in Manual Therapy and Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy
provides specific training on the following modules and topics:
Human anatomy
Human anatomy
Peripheral nervous system
Anatomy of fascia
Human physiology
Nervous system physiology
Orthopaedics and traumatology
Neurology
Biomechanics and kinesiology
General physiopathology
Clinical psychology
Rheumatology
Pharmacology
Professional Behaviour
Patient and physiotherapist emotional behaviour
Research methodology in rehabilitation
Manual Therapy general methodology
Manual Therapy general methodology
Therapeutic exercise and pain management
Neurodinamic principles
Manual Therapy of upper quadrant
Shoulder MT
Elbow MT
part 1
(ATT.NE: si cita una “part 1” ma non trovo la “part 2”)
Wrist and hand MT
Manual Therapy of lower quadrant
Hip MT part 1
Hip MT part 2
Knee MT
Ankle and foot MT
Manual therapy of vertebral column
Manual therapy of spine
Cervical spine MT part 1
Cervical spine MT part 2
Thoracic spine MT part 1
Thoracic spine MT part 2
Lumbar spine MT
Manual therapy of TMJ
Admission and teaching mode
The
First-level Short Specialisation degree
in Manual Therapy and Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy
entails that part of the course – especially those related to basic subjects – will be provided
remotely
, while manual therapy lessons will be main provided
in person
.
Also, it will include
internationalization
-related subjects, in order to provide participants with communicative and linguistic competences that will allow them to practice their profession internationally, such as reading international magazines, and taking part in course and updates at international level.
The course includes
clinical traineeship and tutor-guided activities
, arranged between the two year period and supervised by expert tutors. Finally, it will include one or two
anatomic dissection
workshops.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2023/24 will be published on the Italian page of this
First-level Short Specialisation degree
according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
30/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
24
Maximum available spots:
30
First instalment:
€
									4.102,50
Second instalment:
€
									2.726,50
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
When will the new edition begin?
All editions last two years, and being in Autumn. The related call is presented a few months earlier, every other year.
How long does a Course edition last?
A
First-level Short Specialisation degree
edition lasts two academic years. On average, it begins in December of the first academic year (e.g. December 2023) and ends at the end of the following academic year (e.g. September 2025).
When are seminars held?
In-person seminars are mainly held on weekends, once a month.
When are the exams held?
Exams are held annually. At the end of each academic year, 2 written exams (1 on basic subjects, 1 on speciality subjects) and a hands-on test will be held. At the end of the course, students must write and present a final dissertation.
What titles does the Course grant?
After passing all exams, completing the traineeship and discussing the dissertation, students are awarded a
First-level Short Specialisation degree
, the OMPT international title (issued by the GTM), and the qualification of physiotherapist specialized in musculoskeletal disorders.
Classes start:
16/11/2023
Duration:
Two-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							6.829,00
Pre-enrolment deadline:
06/10/2023
Management
Prof. Raffaele De Caro
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
UniSMART Academy
Phone:
334 6005104
Email:
formazione@unismart.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top