Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/tqf-gmp-compliance-quality-expert-for-pharmaceutical-operations/

Skip to content
Second level university master
TQF
GMP Compliance Quality Expert for Pharmaceutical Operations
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
TQF - GMP Compliance Quality Expert for Pharmaceutical Operations
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
TQF - GMP Compliance Quality Expert for Pharmaceutical Operations
The
Master’s Degree for Industrial Pharmaceutical Process Engineers
prepares professional figures that will cover an essential role in
pharmaceutical companies
and their allied industries.
The course will delve into the responsibilities related to the compliance of technology processes with
Good Manufacturing Practices
(GMP) for the pharmaceutical industry, in the EU and in all those Non-EU Countries where a pharmaceutical product is approved for sale.
The Master focuses on the
pharmaceutical industry
and on related engineering, technology and consultancy companies.
Educational content
The course units of the
Master’s Degree for Industrial Pharmaceutical Process Engineers
provide the required methods and knowledge to manage the pharmaceutical industry technology processes according to GMP criteria.
Huge emphasis is given to the presentation and discussion of case studies, which allow students to relate to actual situations in the pharmaceutical sector.
The Master will involve a strong participation of professors from the industrial sector, and will be divided into 11 thematic modules, as specified below.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Master’s Degree for Industrial Pharmaceutical Process Engineers
is aimed at pharmaceutical operators, in order to improve their knowledge by engaging with the experience of professors with an academic and professional background, and also at new graduates who want to enter the industrial pharmaceutical sector successfully.
A
Pharmaceutical Process Engineer
is a sought-after reference figure in many different pharmaceutical fields, such as:
Pharmaceutical industries that produce active substances and drugs (quality, engineering, production, regulatory areas);
Pharmaceutical industry engineering and consultancy companies, within
GMP compliance & validation
;
Pharmaceutical industry system/machine/technology supplying companies;
Pharmaceutical industry regulatory agencies.
A
Pharmaceutical Process Engineer
is involved in all aspects related to the validation of environments, labs, equipment and production processes, and actively takes part in GMP inspections carried out by regulatory authorities.
Course program
The
Master’s Degree for Industrial Pharmaceutical Process Engineers
will educate students on:
Module 1:
Fundamentals of process plant equipment
Matter and energy balance, matter and heat transportation
Heat exchange and liquid transportation equipment
Separation and purification: distillation and membrane
Bioreactors
Module 2:
Good manufacturing practices for pharmaceutical plants and processes
cGMP Compliance as per EU-GMP and related Annexes
Module 3:
Pure fluids in the service of pharmaceutical processes and controlled contamination environments
Pharmaceutical clean rooms and HVAC systems
Environmental contamination control technologies
Pure fluids for pharmaceutical processes
Module 4:
Pharmaceutical technologies and processes I
Technologies for: dissolution and mixing; sterilization and freeze drying; granulation, compression and coating
Gelled system technologies; main pharmaceutical forms and Pharmacopeia requirements
Module 5:
Inspection, packaging, storage and transport of medicinal products
Storage and transport of pharmaceutical products and validation
Non-sterile drugs and secondary packaging technologies
Sterile forms inspection technology: inspection and leak-testing
Module 6:
Computerized control systems for pharmaceutical processes and data integrity
Computerized Control System for Pharmaceutical Processes
Industrial Pharmaceutical Process Data Integrity
Module 7:
Pharmaceutical quality risk management and Quality By Design practices
Introduction to a statistical Quality By Design approach
Example of Quality Risk management industrial applications
Module 8:
Fundamentals of pharmaceutical biotechnologies
Basic concepts on bacteria, yeasts and mammal cells
Introduction to biomolecule production culture cells
Fermentation plants; industrial bioreactor operating principles
Module 9:
GMP inspections on pharmaceutical production sites
Inspection of pharmaceutical facilities according to EU and International GMP
Module 10:
Pharmaceutical technologies and processes II
Washing, decontamination, sterilization and depyrogenation technologies
Validation of sterilization and depyrogenation processes
Liquid and gas filtration and single-use technologies; blow-fill-seal technology
Production of sterile products in aseptic conditions
Contamination control in pharmaceutical processes
Module 11:
Granulated material, freeze-drying and primary packaging technologies
General particle technology principles and granulated solid processing equipment
Filling and primary packaging process technologies; freeze-drying
Liquid and gas filtration and single-use technologies
Technologies for the production of advanced therapy medicinal products (ATMP).
Partner companies
The
Società di Consulenza Farmaceutica DOC
contributes to the Master’s Course organization, and helps to coordinate expert industry professors and organize the internship period within the companies.
The following companies participate and support this Master’s Course:
ASCCA
Boerhinger Inghelheim
Brevetti Angela
DHL
Eli Lilly Italia
Fedegari
Fidia – Pharma Group
FIS
Flamma
Fresenius Kabi
GlaxoSmithKline
ICOS Pharma
IMA
ISPE Italian Affiliate
Jacobs Italia
Labomar
Lundbeck
OLSA
Patheon Thermo Fisher
PDA Italy Chapter
Pfizer
Sanofi
Stevanato Group
Steelco
STILMAS
Zambon Group
AIFA
The
Master’s Degree for Industrial Pharmaceutical Process Engineer
is sponsored by the Agenzia Italiana del Farmaco (AIFA).
Enrolment requirements
In order to enrol in the
Master’s Degree for Industrial Pharmaceutical Process Engineers
, a Master’s or Specialist Degree is required, or a degree awarded under the previous degree program system in the following:
Biology;
Biotechnologies (industrial, pharmaceutical, medical, veterinarian);
Pharmacy and Chemistry and Pharmaceutical Technology;
Biomedical Engineering;
Chemical Engineering;
Management Engineering;
Mechanical Engineering;
Materials Science or Engineering;
Chemistry or Industrial Chemistry;
Other Master’s Degrees (or with previous regulations) in scientific disciplines, if these have a specific relevance to the Master’s or the candidate has gained significant experience in the pharmaceutical industrial sector.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Single course
PURE FLUIDS IN THE SERVICE OF PHARMACEUTICAL PROCESSES AND CONTROLLED CONTAMINATION ENVIRONMENTS
With the support of professionals, the course will analyse: 1) Pharmaceutical clean rooms and HVAC systems;
2) Environmental contamination control technologies (RABS/Isolators);
3) Pure fluids for pharmaceutical processes (water, vapour and complex gases).
PHARMACEUTICAL QUALITY RISK MANAGEMENT AND QUALITY BY DESIGN PRACTICES
Through the experience of university professors and corporate professionals, the course will cover the following specific topics:
1) Introduction to a statistical Quality By Design approach;
2) Example of Quality Risk management industrial applications according to cGMP.
INSPECTION, PACKAGING, STORAGE AND TRANSPORT OF MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
With the help of university professors and professionals, the course will focus on: 1) Pharmaceutical product storage and transportation and related validation;
2) Non-sterile drugs and secondary packaging technologies;
3) Sterile forms inspection technology: inspection and leak-testing.
GMP INSPECTIONS ON PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTION SITES
The course will focus mainly on the inspection of pharmaceutical facilities according to EU and International GMP. The topic will be covered from the standpoint of both inspection protagonists: regulating body inspectors and company professionals.
GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICES FOR PHARMACEUTICAL PLANTS AND PROCESSES
The course will analyse cGMP Compliance as per EU-GMP. It will focus on studying the related Annexes and their latest rewritings.
Moreover, it will focus on Compliance as per International GMP (USA, BRAZIL, PIC/S, etc.).
COMPUTERIZED CONTROL SYSTEMS FOR PHARMACEUTICAL PROCESSES AND DATA INTEGRITY
Through the experience of corporate professionals, the course will cover the following specific topics:
1) Computerized Control System for Pharmaceutical Processes;
2) Data Integrity according to Pharmaceutical Industrial Process GMP.
GRANULATED MATERIAL, FREEZE-DRYING AND PRIMARY PACKAGING TECHNOLOGIES
1) Particle Technology general principles and quantitative discussion on granular solid processing equipment;
2) Primary packaging and filling process technologies;
3) Freeze-drying and process validation technologies;
4) Liquid and gas filtration and single-use technologies.
PHARMACEUTICAL TECHNOLOGIES AND PROCESSES 2
1) Washing, decontamination, sterilization and depyrogenation, validation technologies;
2) Filling process, primary packaging, freeze drying, process validation, liquid and gas filtration and single use technologies;
3) Blow-fill-seal technology, manufacturing of sterile products, contamination control.
Information
Thematic area:
Scientific innovation
End of classes:
18/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
16
Maximum available spots:
32
First instalment:
€
									3.022,50
Second instalment:
€
									2.000,00
Selection process notice
Website
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25
FAQ
When and how will the Master's Course lessons be held?
The Master’s Course lessons will be held every 2 to 3 weeks, from November 2024 to October 2025 (except for August 2025), on Thursday and Friday (full day) and on Saturday morning. The lesson plan is designed to facilitate working students, so that they can organize their attendance beforehand. Lessons will be held in-person, at the University of Padua, for a total of 320 hours.
What will the traineeship be and how will it be organized?
Besides in-person lessons, every student must do a 500-hour traineeship in a company, to put what they learned during the lessons into practice. You can select the company where to do your traineeship among the Master’s partner companies, or it can also be an external company. For working students, the 500-hour traineeship can also include 500 hours of work within the company you are already working for.
Non-working students are required to find a company within the industrial pharmaceutical sector to do their 500-hour traineeship. The Master’s organizing committee and administrative staff will support students in their placement within the companies.
Will there be any other activity, apart from lessons and traineeships?
There will be no other mandatory activities. Students will be offered optional activities that may include seminars/lessons on relevant topics, participation to events or trade fairs, visits to companies.
Does the Master include any financial support options, such as scholarships or prizes?
The Master’s Degree foresees the option of a (partial) reimbursement for travel and room/board fees for students coming from different Regions, who attended at least 70% of the lessons. The reimbursement fee will be established based on the actual distance of the applicant’s domicile with respect to the Master’s venue, and the actual amount sustained. In any case, it cannot exceed €2,500. Unfortunately, there are no scholarships or prizes for this course.
Where can I find further information or answers to specific doubts?
You can download the notice of selection under the “Info” section in this page. In addition, you can contact UniSMART’s administrative office (formazione@unismart.it) or the Master Director, Prof. Fabrizio Bezzo (fabrizio.bezzo@unipd.it).
Classes start:
21/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							5.022,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
08/10/2024
Management
Prof. Fabrizio Bezzo
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
UniSMART Fondazione Università di Padova
Phone:
3346005104
Email:
formazione@unismart.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top