Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/ttcs-transcatheter-treatment-with-multimodal-imaging-for-structural-heart-diseases/

Skip to content
Second level university master
TTCS
Transcatheter treatment with multimodal imaging for structural heart diseases
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
TTCS - Transcatheter treatment with multimodal imaging for structural heart diseases
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
TTCS - Transcatheter treatment with multimodal imaging for structural heart diseases
The
Second-level short specialisation degree in
Transcatheter treatment with multimodal imaging
for structural heart diseases
trains professional doctors in the field of
interventional and structural cardiology
, focusing on the understanding of human anatomy, protocols, procedural planning, and the evaluation of patients undergoing interventional and structural procedures (e.g., TAVI, edge-to-edge transcatheter mitral valve repair, LAA closure, PFO, ASD, VSD). Students will be able to perform screenings for said procedures and select appropriate devices and steps for a successful outcome.
Educational content
With the
Second-level short specialisation degree in
Transcatheter treatment with multimodal imaging
for structural heart diseases
, students will learn how to select, perform, and interpret patients’ instrumental tests, as well as manage and conduct the necessary procedures.
The course focuses on the pathophysiology of valve disorders and congenital heart diseases that affect adults, and the preparation of patients undergoing interventional and structural procedures.
The topics of our master are divided into three main areas, listed below.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Second-level short specialisation degree in
Transcatheter treatment with multimodal imaging
for structural heart diseases
aims at providing cardiologists, heart surgeons, and anesthetists with the theoretical and practical knowledge necessary for a therapeutic, innovative, and modern approach when dealing with patients affected by structural heart disease, with the help of multimodal imaging.
Our students will improve their interaction skills with their fellow cardiologists, heart surgeons, and anesthetists who cooperate within the
heart team,
in the stages of managing patients and communicating the risks and benefits of each procedure. They will also learn how to objectively assess international guidelines, trials, and informed consents.
Course program
The
Second-level short specialisation degree in
Transcatheter treatment with multimodal imaging
for structural heart diseases
includes three topic areas:
1 – VALVE DISORDERS AND CONGENITAL HEART DISEASES IN ADULTS
Pathophysiology and treatment of valve disorders and structural cardiac defects
Cardiovascular pathological anatomy
Multidisciplinary approach to clinical management
Heart surgery
Clinical, diagnostic, and interventional approach for patients with bioprosthetic dysfunction
Vascular approach in interventional cardiology and management of interprocedural complications
Congenital heart disease: a clinical, echocardiographic, and interventional approach
Echocardiography for structural non-valvular heart disease
Management of anesthesia in the Cath Lab
2 – INVASIVE AND NON-INVASIVE DIAGNOSTICS
Echocardiographic diagnostics for valve disorders
Radiological diagnostics for patients undergoing interventional and structural procedures
Interprocedural echocardiographic monitoring in patients with mitral and tricuspid valve disorder
Clinical, echocardiographic, and interventional approach for patients with paravalvular leak
3 – TRANSCATHETER TREATMENT TECHNIQUES
Invasive hemodynamic diagnostics
Clinical and interventional approach for patients with valvular aortic stenosis
Interventional techniques
Clinical and interventional approach for patients with tricuspid valve disorder
LAA closure: clinical, echocardiographic, and interventional approach
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this Second-level short specialisation degree according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
8
Maximum available spots:
20
First instalment:
€
									3.022,50
Second instalment:
€
									2.000,00
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
How are the lessons organized?
The educational path includes lectures, exercise sessions, step-by-step tutorials with simulators, live sessions from the haemodynamics laboratory and live-in-a box.
The Short specialisation degree takes place over a year at the UOSD Hemodynamics and Interventional Cardiology of the University of Padua. Participants, compatibly with national regulations related to the pandemic situation, will have to attend the Padua haemodynamics laboratory as observers.
Does the program include any patient assistance activities?
No, the program only includes observation activities.
Will there be a final exam?
Yes, the final exam will be performed orally.
Classes start:
28/11/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
Dual-mode
Total enrolment fee:
€
							5.022,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Giuseppe Tarantini
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Barbara Hildenbrand
Phone:
0498218642
Email:
barbara.hildenbrand@unipd.it
Alternative contact
Contact Person:
Deputy Director- Dott.ssa Chiara Fraccaro
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top