Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/upo-use-of-ultrasound-in-the-clinical-practice-of-midwifery/

Skip to content
First level university master
UPO
Use of Ultrasound in the Clinical Practice of Midwifery
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
UPO - Use of Ultrasound in the Clinical Practice of Midwifery
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
First level university master
>
UPO - Use of Ultrasound in the Clinical Practice of Midwifery
The Master  joins the second extraordinary pre-enrolment term from the 4th to the 25th November 2024, 12.30 pm.
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in
Use of Ultrasound in the Clinical Practice of Midwifery
prepares professionals in the field on ultrasound diagnostic methods, an indispensable tool today for allowing midwives to work autonomously.  There are several areas where these practices can be used, and differing opinions on whether they should be included in areas like the delivery room. The ultrasound can be an indispensable tool when it comes to helping patients in labour, managing low-risk pregnancies, clinical activities during the first trimester (antenatal counselling), and as a first course of action in obstetric or gynaecological emergencies.
Educational content
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in
Use of Ultrasound in the Clinical Practice of Midwifery
is to have a number of hours of
theory-based lectures
, with lecturers from different backgrounds, in order to lay a foundation for the
internship
to come later. Actually, the lectures allow for further expanding knowledge of physiology and  pathologies  that midwives may encounter in working in the different areas where ultrasounds are used.
The main objective of the course is for the student to be able to distinguish between a normal ultrasound image and one that shows a pathology, potentially defining its characteristics,  asking for support in interpreting the image and/or sending the patient for a more specialized visit. A secondary objective is increasing the degree of autonomy in using the ultrasound in areas of the midwifery profession where new developments are taking place.
Course target and career opportunities
Those who can take part in the
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in
Use of Ultrasound in the Clinical Practice of Midwifery
are midwives who hold a three-year degree in obstetrics, whether employed in the public or private healthcare sector, with the desire to learn more about using ultrasound technology in different areas of obstetrics and gynaecology. Whether midwives should use ultrasounds as a tool autonomously – the ability to make assessments without the supervision of another medical figure – is up for debate. At present, point-of-care sonography is the only area of assessment that doesn’t require another medical figure to be present, allowing the midwife to make use of ultrasounds to resolve any doubts, to verify parameters (checking for heartbeat), and help in the delivery room (seeing foetal position).
After a physical or clinical examination, the ultrasound can, in some specific cases, be a useful tool for
getting an overall understanding of the patient’s situation
. Midwives can use the ultrasound to confirm pregnancy in utero, to understand why a patient is bleeding heavily, to look for a foetal heartbeat, to check the level of amniotic fluid, to see the position of the foetus, to check on the health and biometrics of the foetus, to check on position in labour, to see if a ventouse will be necessary, to check the pelvic floor, and to monitor the formation of adnexal cysts.
Course program
The
First-level Short Specialisation Degree
in
Use of Ultrasound in the Clinical Practice of Midwifery
will provide training in:
Module 1:
ULTRASOUND PHYSICS
Ultrasound mechanisms, their characteristics and how they can be used.
Module 2:
GENETICS
Screening techniques and prenatal diagnosis,  teratology.
Module 3:
ANATOMICAL PATHOLOGY
Anatomical study of foetal malformations.
Module 4:
FETAL ULTRASOUND ANATOMY, IN PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY
Examples of normal ultrasounds as compared to those showing pathologies, by organ and apparatus.
Module 5:
ULTRASOUND SEMEIOTICS IN GYNECOLOGY
Examples of benign and malignant tumours as seen on ultrasound.
Module 6:
APPLICATION OF ULTRASOUND IN ASSISTED REPRODUCTION
From follicular monitoring to guided transfer techniques to the study of tubal patency.
Module 7:
USE OF ULTRASOUND TO STUDY THE ANAL SPHINCTER IN GRADE III-IV LACERATIONS
Getting a highly detailed ultrasound for suspected cases.
Module 8:
USE OF ULTRASOUND IN THE DELIVERY ROOM
Areas of use of ultrasound: checking for position, before  operative delivery, as a support in postpartum haemorrhage.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit will be published on the Italian page of this Master according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Scientific innovation
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
7
First instalment:
€
									1.584,00
Second instalment:
€
									1.041,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
How will the distance learning be structured?
Zoom will be used for the theory part; for the internship, students must be on site. This will involve a minimum of 30 hours of practical work being supervised in the various departments, with the possibility of performing ultrasounds, including cardiac and biometric evaluations (in the first trimester as well) or gynaecological evaluations.
The final test will consist of a personal paper or project work, enabling students to express themselves on a topic they feel most comfortable with. During the lessons, learning checks may be  carried out in the form of exams, articles, or theses, allowing the professor to identify and correct any concepts that may be unclear. Study materials will be provided, and there will also be opportunities to interact directly with lecturers.
Where will the internship take place?
In all areas of gynaecology and obstetrics, so that the learner can see how ultrasounds can be applied to various situations. Practical training hours include supervision by a “tutor.”
What kind of freedom will I have in using ultrasounds in my everyday practice?
As part of point-of-care sonography, and therefore during a visit or if there are any doubts of a gynaecological nature. It is hoped that, in the future, the range of uses will expand even for midwives, for example in the first trimester, at the end of pregnancy, and in emergency-room situations, beyond routine visits.  A midwife who also has ultrasound training benefits the entire team in terms of expertise and makes for a better final result, meaning giving the patient the best possible care.
Classes start:
09/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.625,00
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Erich Cosmi
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Sara Pozzato
Phone:
0498217615
Email:
sara.pozzato@unipd.it
Alternative contact
Contact Person:
Vice Direttore - Dott.ssa Silvia Visentin
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top