Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/uro-rad-diagnostic-imaging-and-interventional-radiology-in-urology/

Skip to content
Second level university master
URO-RAD
Diagnostic Imaging and Interventional Radiology in Urology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
URO-RAD - Diagnostic Imaging and Interventional Radiology in Urology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
URO-RAD - Diagnostic Imaging and Interventional Radiology in Urology
Not activated for AY 2024/2025.
The
Second-Level Short Specialisation Degree
in Diagnostic Imaging and Interventional Radiology in Urology
prepares specialists with advances skills in diagnostic imaging and interventional radiology in urology, in the pre and post-surgery assessment of urological patients, in the interpretation of diagnostic images, in managing advanced tools and technologies, and in the patient’s management
Goal of the course is training a complete specialist that acquires and possesses knowledge and competences in different imaging techniques, in the urological, andrological, uro-gynaecological and urological-paediatric field.
Educational content
The
Second-Level Short Specialisation Degree
in Diagnostic Imaging and Interventional Radiology in Urology
is an interdisciplinary training course that provides knowledge and tools to help professionals
interpret first level imaging critically,
and integrate it with second level imaging.
Furthermore, participants will acquire the theoretical and practical knowledge necessary to
carry out uro-radiological interventional procedures
, and will be actively involved in
prostatic ultrasound and biopsy procedures
, and in actively assisting
interventional radiology procedures
in the urological field.
The program focuses on the diagnostics and treatment of male and female uro-genital system diseases, including prostatic, bladder and kidney cancer, urological malformations and urinary infections.
Course target and career opportunities
The
Second-Level Short Specialisation Degree
in Diagnostic Imaging and Interventional Radiology in Urology
is addressed to radiologists, nuclear physicians, urologists, nephrologists, paediatricians, and interventional radiologists.
By acquiring advance diagnostic imaging and interventional radiology skills in urology, the day-to-day clinical practice and interaction between specialists is improved.
The
Second-Level Short Specialisation Degree
provides such an advanced and specialists training to allow placement in public and private healthcare facilities such as radiologists and nuclear physicians specialized in urology, interventional radiologists, paediatricians, nephrologists and urologists with advanced diagnostic imaging skills. Also, there are broad
research opportunities
, with particular focus on early urological cancer diagnostics and imaging strategies for post-surgery follow-up.
Course program
The
Second-Level Short Specialisation Degree
in Diagnostic Imaging and Interventional Radiology in Urology
provides in-depth training on the following topics:
Fusion Prostate Biopsy
: technique to perform transperineal fusion prostate biopsies.
Intra-surgical kidney ultrasound
to assess kidney cancer.
Indications for
diagnostic imaging
of urological diseases.
Neonatal and paediatric ultrasound diagnostics
: 2nd and 3rd level imaging in paediatrics, when and why.
Use of radiographic and X-ray images
in urology.
Ultrasound semiotics
: assessment of kidney and adrenal masses, and hydronephrosis.
Vascular kidney anatomy
: study of secondary vascular hypertension; kidney colour Doppler; anatomy and execution technique; use of ultrasounds as contrast medium in urology; assessment of fistulae and pseudoaneurysms.
Ultrasound pattern
for kidney diseases; kidney failure; non cancer kidney diseases; resistance index; role of indexes in medical and surgical kidney diseases; renovascular hypertension and transplanted kidney.
Anatomy and semiotics of
testicular and plaque-related ultrasounds
; eco-guided testicular biopsies; normal and pathological anatomy of penis and testicle power Doppler.
Fundamentals of TC physics and contrast means
; TC topographical anatomy of urological organs and pathologies; TC assessment of kidney masses, complex kidney cystitis and adrenal masses.
Study of
urinary stones
; abdomen TC in polytrauma; application in uro-gynaecological diseases.
URO-TC
, how to do it: tips and tricks; beyond TC: 3D printing and AI.
Fundamentals of RM physics and contrast means:
RM in uro-gynaecology (from endometriosis to fistulae); RM assessment of kidney masses;
VI_RADS.
PI-RADS; URO-RM, how to do it: tips and tricks, use of RM for genital study.
Fundamentals of PET/TC, PET/RM
physics; kidney scan
and osseous scan.
Prostate
, indication for stage 1 and 2; which imaging for staging and restaging of prostatic cancer (PET/TC, PET/MRI osseous scan)?
Reading and interpretation of
prostatic RM – PI-RADS
; clinical cases.
Reading and interpretation of
bladder RM – VI-RADS
; clinical cases.
Prenatal
ultrasound diagnostics
in the urological field; neonatal and paediatric ultrasound diagnostics; assessment of paediatric kidney transplant.
Assessment of
urological diseases in children
and guide to their treatment; interventional radiology in children.
Kidney scans in children;
DMSA: indications, techniques, rational interpretation and techniques.
Interventional radiology:
how to place drains for pelvic collection, nephrostomies, pre and post-surgical kidney embolization, kidney mass treatment with crioablation or microwaves, polytrauma management, prostatic embolization.
Admission and teaching mode
The
Second-Level Short Specialisation Degree
in Diagnostic Imaging and Interventional Radiology in Urology
uses a hands-on and theoretical educational approach, with
in-person
lessons, some of which
on-line
, and hands-on
practice
. It also includes visits to the OR to assist to intra-surgical ultrasounds, or during interventional radiology procedures. It includes
lessons cycles concentrated
in short periods, agreed with the professors and students.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this
Second-Level Short Specialisation Degree
according to the timing provided in the Call.
Faculty
Scientific managers:
Fabrizio Dal Moro
Giorgio De Conti
Speakers:
Anto Luigi Andres
Giulio  Barbiero
Michele Battistel
Giancarlo Bombonato
Nicola Caretta
Giuseppe Casarrubea
Laura Evangelista
Massimo Iafrate
Carmelo Lacognata
Alberto Lauro
Alessandro Morlacco
Federico Nalesso
Giacomo Novara
Matteo Todisco
Enrico Vidal
Fabio Zattoni
Pietro Zucchetta
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
31/10/2025
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
5
Maximum available spots:
10
Single instalment:
€
									2.722,50
Selection process notice
I titoli di accesso saranno specificati nell'avviso di selezione 24/25
FAQ
How long is the course in Diagnostic Imaging and Interventional Radiology in Urology in Padua?
The course duration is one academic year, from December 2024 to October 2025.
What are the requirements to access the course?
A Master’s Degree in Medicine and Surgery is required. It is preferable to be already specialized in Urology, Radiology or Nuclear Medicine.
Where will the course’s skills be developed?
Attendees will visit the Urology Unit, the Urology OR, the radiology and interventional radiology units, the human reproduction clinics, the Paediatrics clinic, the kidney disease clinic and the nuclear medicine unit of the Padua Hospital.
Attendees will have the chance to interact with a group of highly qualified professors, and to work in close contact with other field professionals.
Classes start:
18/12/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padua
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							2.722,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof. Fabrizio Dal Moro
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Giovanna Di Turi
Phone:
049 8218270
Email:
didattica.discog@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top