Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/vetpat-veterinary-pathology/

Skip to content
Second level university master
VETPAT
Veterinary Pathology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
VETPAT - Veterinary Pathology
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Second level university master
>
VETPAT - Veterinary Pathology
The Master joins the second extraordinary pre-enrolment term from the 4th to the 25th November 2024, 12.30 pm.
The
Master in Veterinary Pathology
was born out of the initiatives of some veterinary pathologists to create a national post-graduate specialization course on this subject matter. This initiative can count on the wealth of experiences and competence of the entire national territory, and is based on the structure of the exam taking place at the European College of Veterinary Pathology (ECVP).
Purpose
of this Master is to train professionals with veterinary pathology competences, according to very high international standards (
i.e.
, international boards – ECVP, ACVP), with reference to general pathology, macro- and microscopic pathological anatomy, including forensic pathology, and lab techniques applied to the main species of domestic animals, with mentions of non-domestic/non-mammal species.
Learning content
This two-year Master develops and deepens the notions aimed at applying veterinary pathology in the diagnostic field, with mentions of general pathology, pathological anatomy (macroscopic and microscopic), including forensic pathology, and diagnostic and research techniques in the main domestic species, with mentions of wild/exotic, water, aviary and lab species. All topics will be dealt with according to the most recent international scientific literature (
https://www.ecvpath.org/literature-list-2024/
). Lectures and internships on every module of the course will be carried out mainly by certified professionals (i.e., ECVP/ACVP/ECVCP) or by graduates with proven experience in the relevant topics.
The activities will be carried out mainly only, on the Zoom platform, on Friday afternoon, between 2 and 6 p.m. The lessons include both lectures and practice on digital material (histological slides and macroscopic images). There will also be in-person meetings over the weekend, for hands-on activities and exams. The overall mandatory attendance is at least 70% of the course. There will be learning assessment tests for each module, a final exam and a project work (a short scientific essay that will be published on a peer-reviewed international journal).
Recipients and career opportunities
The Master is addressed only to graduates of Veterinary Medicine, with Italian or foreign degree (all lessons will be held in Italian). No specific experience is required, only a strong interest in exploring the field of Veterinary Pathology. After acquiring the title, students will be able to deal with cases of veterinary necroscopic and histo/cytopathological diagnostics, and with some research activities related to veterinary pathology, according to high professional standards. Professionals may work in the private and public sectors, such as in veterinary diagnostic companies and labs, pharmaceutical companies, animal pathological anatomy inspection companies, public veterinary healthcare units (e.g. Local Healthcare Units and Zooprophylactic institutes), zoos and university research.
Program
Module 1:
General and molecular veterinary pathology
Understanding the four main aspects of general pathology: etiology, pathogenetic mechanisms, general structural alterations in cells and body tissues (morphological damage), and the main functional consequences. This module will include about 50 hours of online lessons.
Module 2:
Specialist veterinary pathological anatomy
Understanding organ pathologies by referring to their causes, pathogenesis, and related morphological injuries. This module will include about 50 hours of online lessons, and will be carried out in sequence with Module 4. Also, there will be two in-person residential weekends for practice on macroscopic injuries.
Module 3:
Forensic pathology and necroscopic diagnostic
A critical approach to forensic cases and application of forensic methods to legal cases. In particular, this module will cover the following topics: thanatology and taphonomy; crime scene examination and data recovery; forensic necroscopic diagnostic techniques and diagnostic findings; national and international laws on animal welfare and abuse; specific terminology; physiopathology of death; accidental and non-accidental pathological anatomy injuries; poisoning. This module will include 40 hours of online lessons, and two residential weekends (in person) for practice on forensic cases.
Module 4:
Veterinary histopathology and cytopathology
Recognition of morphological tissue injuries at histological level, through the formulation of morphological diagnoses, including possible causes and pathogenesis. This module will include about 40 hours of on-line lessons, mainly in the form of practice on digitalized histological and cytological slides. This module will be completed alongside Module 2. Also, there will be two (in-person) residential weekends for practice on histological injuries, including also the histological descriptive technique, as per indications of the ECVP exam.
Module 5:
Macroscopic veterinary pathology
Recognition of morphological tissue injuries found in tissues, organs and systems at macroscopic level, by formulating morphological diagnoses, including the identification of possible causes and pathogenetic processes, as per indication of the ECVP exam. This module includes about 30 hours of online lessons, mainly carried out on macroscopic injury images, based on domestic animal species, with mentions of non-domestic/non-mammal species.
Module 6:
Lab techniques applied
Understanding and application of basic and innovative diagnostic and research methods, applied to veterinary pathology, with short references also to toxicological pathology, research study plans, and applied statistics.
This module will include about 30 hours of online lessons. Also, there will be two in-person residential weekends for lab practice on the main techniques.
Faculty
The Master faculty will comprise certified professionals (i.e., ECVP/ACVP/ECVCP) or graduates with proven experience in several fields.
Many professors are already involved in post-graduate training, also in preparation to the ECVP exam, and, in some cases, to the ECVCP exam. The two-year Master will ideally represent a contribution for the two-year ECVP training, which includes 1 year of post-graduate internship, and more than 3 years of training for the normal course.
In-person residential weekends
The Master In-person weekends will be carried out between Thursday and Saturday, or between Friday and Sunday. The University of Padua (BCA Dep., Agripolis, Legnaro, PD), and the University Federico II in Naples (MVPA Dep. Naples), will be certainly involved in those activities; however, even other Italian sites may give their availability for practical activities. They will be carried out in small groups, even on a rotational basis, if needed.
Information
Thematic area:
Health, environment and territory
End of classes:
25/09/2026
Mandatory attendance:
70%
Minimum available spots:
12
Maximum available spots:
30
First instalment:
€
									3.022,50
Second instalment:
€
									2.006,50
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
Is attendance mandatory?
Mandatory attendance is at least 70% of the Master’s hours.
Will there be an internship?
No, the Master in Veterinary Pathology does not include any internships. Credits will be acquired through a project work, which will feature a short scientific descriptive essay (e.g. case report), to be published on an indexed and peer-reviewed international journal.
How will the intermediate and final assessment be carried out?
There will be one exam for each module, and a final written/oral exam, plus a project work, featuring a short scientific essay to be published.
Can I enrol if I did not graduate yet?
Students must have obtained their degrees before the beginning of the lessons (November 2024).
Does this master correspond to an official training for ECVP or a residency?
NO, for the official training/residency, follow the official indications on the ECVP website (
https://www.ecvpath.org/residency-training/
) which entail a registration as trainee in a registered training centre, and a supervisor, after one year of post-graduate internship.
Classes start:
15/11/2024
Duration:
Two-year
Venue:
Legnaro, Napoli
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
60
Teaching method:
Distance learning
Total enrolment fee:
€
							5.029,00
Pre-enrolment deadline:
25/11/2024
Management
Prof.ssa Valentina Elena Giuditta Zappulli
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
Tonina Curridori
Phone:
049 8279410
Email:
vetpat.bca@unipd.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top