Link: https://uel.unipd.it/en/masters/yes-educational-yoga-in-schools/

Skip to content
Advanced training course
YES
Educational Yoga in Schools
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Advanced training course
>
YES - Educational Yoga in Schools
Home
>
Master e corsi
>
Advanced training course
>
YES - Educational Yoga in Schools
The Course of Educational Yoga in Schools is a higher education course that prepares experts in this field, in an interdisciplinary educational, yogic (and also psychological and philosophical) context, addressed to children and adolescents to help them develop Life Skills.
Purpose of Educational Yoga is strengthening self-knowledge, motivation, attention and concentration skills in minors, by promoting the complete and harmonious education of their entire personality.
The Course provides theoretical knowledge, abilities and experiences to implement cross-cutting competencies in children, adolescents and young adults, and the establishment of Educational Yoga paths in schools, both for ordinary practice – as new wellness routine – and to tackle possible school-related issues experienced by teachers and students (such as ADHD, BES, bulling, DSA, …).
Educational content
The Course of Educational Yoga in Schools draws on educational content, multidisciplinary methods and tools to set out a profile that can support the growth of children, adolescents and young adults, according to the principles of Educational Yoga.
The course includes theoretical lessons, workshop activities and gym practice.
The educational content is divided into 4 modules.
The first module includes the philosophical and epistemological basics of educational yoga, and of Oki do Yoga in particular. The second module has an educational nature and offers the epistemological basis of this science, interpreted in a project-based way for the educational practice, with particular focus of the identity and spiritual growth dimension (including contributions by the philosophy for children). The third module works on the connection between mind and body, through a pedagogy of corporeality and motility: the basic aspects related to the psycho-motor development in children and adolescents are complemented by contributions of positive psychology and emotional intelligence. Lastly, the fourth module is particularly broad, and is devoted to the practice of Educational Yoga, experienced directly at the gym, with specific trainers. It covers and practices playful activities, collaborative practices, breathing exercises (pranayama), visualizations (pratiahara), yoga positions (àsana), massage techniques.
Course target and career opportunities
The Course of Educational Yoga in Schools, promoted by the Department of Philosophy Sociology, Pedagogy and Applied Psychology, provides a precious integration to the educational profile of kindergarten and primary school teachers, secondary school professors of any subject, and educators, pedagogists, yoga instructors, healthcare operators, graduates with a Bachelor and Master’s Degree in Educational Sciences, Biomedicine, Motor Sciences and Psychology.
The course prepares attendees to work as instructors, consultants, facilitators, external experts in school institutions, or private and public educational organizations.
Course program
The Course of Educational Yoga in Schools provides training on:
Module 1 – THEORETICAL BASICS
Historical, philosophical and epistemological basis of Educational Yoga.
Educational Yoga foundations: Oki do Yoga.
Module 2 – PEDAGOGICAL ELEMENTS AND EDUCATIONAL KEYS
Pedagogical epistemology and educational planning elements.
Education to spiritual dimension and reflective potential: from pedagogy masters to philosophy for children.
Module 3 – MIND-BODY CONNECTION
Well-being at school: emotional intelligence and positive psychology.
Pedagogy of corporeality and motility.
Psycho-motor development in children and adolescents.
Module 4 – PRACTICE AT SCHOOL
Educational planning, operational methods and result assessment.
Educational yoga activities with children and adolescents: collaborative games, breathing exercises (pranayama), visualizations (pratiahara), yoga positions (àsana), massage techniques.
Partnerships
The Course can count on experts with broad experience.
The Course is affiliated with SSD arl “Yoga Educativo” of Treviso, a MIUR-credited training body, which has been active in schools since 2002, and which has managed 37 annual 200-hour training courses for professors in Educational Yoga since 2014, in central and northern Italy regions, in Treviso, Vicenza, Rovigo, Venice, Belluno, Udine, Trento, Milan, Bergamo, Modena, Pistoia, Pesaro, Bolzano and in Greece (
www.yogaeducativo.it
, and the
Youtube channel
and
FB page
).
Moreover, the CAF works with many comprehensive institutes in central and norther Italy, such as: IC2 Treviso, IC Castel Maggiore (BO), IC Prato, IC Mariano Comense (CO), IC2 Trento, IC Tavagnacco (UD), and many more.
General ranking of merit
The general ranking of merit for the academic year 2024/25 will be published on the Italian page of this course according to the timing provided in the Call.
Information
Thematic area:
Mind and psycho-physical well-being
End of classes:
21/06/2025
Mandatory attendance:
80%
Minimum available spots:
16
Maximum available spots:
25
First instalment:
€
									821,50
Second instalment:
€
									400,00
Selection process notice
Find the admission titles in the selection notice 24/25.
FAQ
Will there be any forms of facilitation?
No, there are no forms of facilitation.
How many hours of lessons are scheduled, and what is the mandatory attendance?
The overall hours of (theoretical and hands-on) lessons are 101; mandatory attendance is 80%, which means that the total absences cannot exceed 21 hours.
Is the lesson calendar with the relevant dates and times available?
The calendar is being finalized; it will consist of 8 weekends, between 26/10/23 and 15/06/24.
Will there be a final exam?
Yes, the final exam will be a dissertation on the Educational Yoga lessons, drafted by attendees during the course, in relation to their own context.
Classes start:
25/10/2024
Duration:
One-year
Venue:
Padova
Language:
Italian
ECTS:
12
Teaching method:
In-person
Total enrolment fee:
€
							1.221,50
Pre-enrolment deadline:
07/10/2024
Management
Prof. Luca Agostinetto
Administrative Office
Contact Person:
UniSMART Fondazione Università di Padova
Phone:
3346005104
Email:
formazione@unismart.it
Teaching method:
ECTS:
In-person lessons:
H
Month and year:
Fee:
€
Close
© 2024 UEL. All rights reserved.
Privacy policy
-
Cookie Policy
-
Cookies settings
Page load link
Go to Top