Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/anthropology-ma-thesis

Anthropology
Master of Arts (MA)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
At the Department of Anthropology and Archaeology, we take a comparative, cross-cultural and cross-specific perspective to understand human beings. We consider how humans evolved, how they shape — and are shaped by — their culture, and we seek to understand the records they have left behind. Our students are curious and driven to understand the world around them. And the research options are boundless for students accepted into this thesis-based program, boasting both a socio-cultural stream (anthropology and militarization, medical anthropology, sustainability, urban anthropology) and a biological anthropology stream (conservation, human osteology, population genetics, primatology, paleoanthropology).
Completing this program
Core courses include
Thesis Development
and
Professional Skills for Anthropologists
.
Students choose a methods course: either
Methods in Anthropological Research
or
Current Issues in Methodology in Primatology
.
Students choose a theory course: either
Anthropological Theory
or
Primatological Theory
.
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Specializations
Biological Anthropology (Interdisciplinary)
Outcomes
Cultural Resource Management, Corporate Consulting, International health organizations, International and community development, Market research, Law, Humanitarian efforts, forensics, medicine, veterinary medicine, conservation, academic positions.
A master’s degree in anthropology will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Two core courses and two electives
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Susanne Cote
Accepting Inquiries
Paleoanthropology
Naotaka Hayashi
Unavailable
Environmental Anthropology, Community Building and Development
Steig Johnson
Accepting Inquiries
Primatology
Ben M. McKay
Unavailable
Global Development Studies
Julio Mercader Florin
Accepting Inquiries
Environmental Archaeology, Geoarchaeology, Bioarchaeology, Chemical and Materials Science approaches to the Past
Kathryn Reese-Taylor
Accepting Inquiries
Maya archaeology, Mesoamerican anthropology, Remote sensing in archaeology, Landscape archaeology, Urbanism, Ceramic analysis
Warren Wilson
Accepting Inquiries
Biological Anthropology
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
An example of the applicant's written work in the research context.
Documents
A statement outlining the applicant's interests and reasons for wishing to pursue graduate work in this department. Clearly identify your thesis research area
A C.V
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: December 15 application deadline
International students: December 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Anthropology and Archaeology
Earth Sciences 620
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Anthropology
Thesis-based PhD
Chemistry
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Geography
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MGIS
PhD
History
Thesis-based MA
Course-based MA
PhD
Kinesiology
Course-based MKin
Thesis-based MSc
Phd
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Physics and Astronomy
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Psychology
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Sociology
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary