Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/anthropology-phd

Anthropology
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Students in the Anthropology (PhD Thesis) program will benefit from study and research under a department that combines rigorous training with extensive field experience and lab investigations around the world. The Department of Anthropology and Archaeology embraces an integrative approach, offering innovative studies in anthropology that include the socio-cultural stream. This ranges from anthropology and militarization to medical anthropology, natural resources and environment, political economy and globalization, sustainability, and urban anthropology. The biological anthropology stream includes behavioral ecology, conservation, health and nutrition, human osteology, sex differences and reproduction, population genetics, primatology, and paleoanthropology.
Completing this program
Select a Specialization:
Either primatology or social and cultural anthropology.
Field Work:
Field work for social and cultural anthropology is required.
Candidacy:
Students will complete both oral and written candidacy exams.
Courses Requirements:
Independent study and a reading course in the student's substantive area.
Language Requirement:
Demonstrated proficiency in a language other than English.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Specializations
Biological Anthropology (Interdisciplinary)
Outcomes
Cultural Resource Management, Corporate Consulting, International health organizations, International and community development, Market research, Law, Humanitarian efforts, forensics, medicine, veterinary medicine, conservation, academic positions.
With a PhD in anthropology, you may be able to pursue post-doctoral opportunities.
Thesis-based program
Thesis-based with written and oral examination components
Courses
One reading course; additional courses tailored to the student's needs
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Susanne Cote
Accepting Inquiries
Paleoanthropology
Naotaka Hayashi
Unavailable
Environmental Anthropology, Community Building and Development
Steig Johnson
Accepting Inquiries
Primatology
Ben M. McKay
Unavailable
Global Development Studies
Amanda Melin
Accepting Inquiries
Sensory ecology; Field Primatology, Sensory Ecology, Genetics and Genomics, 'Omics and the aging eye, Aging processes and consequences
Kathryn Reese-Taylor
Accepting Inquiries
Maya archaeology, Mesoamerican anthropology, Remote sensing in archaeology, Landscape archaeology, Urbanism, Ceramic analysis
Warren Wilson
Accepting Inquiries
Biological Anthropology
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.4 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
Master of Arts, degree or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
Statement of Academic Intent for PhD applicants.
Documents
None
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: December 15 application deadline
International students: December 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Anthropology and Archaeology
Earth Sciences 620
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Anthropology
Thesis-based MA
Chemistry
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Geography
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MGIS
PhD
History
Thesis-based MA
Course-based MA
PhD
Kinesiology
Course-based MKin
Thesis-based MSc
Phd
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Physics and Astronomy
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Psychology
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Sociology
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based PhD
Highlights of the Anthropology program
These stories from those involved in the program show what it's like to be involved yourself.
Anthropology's Jennifer Leason receives CIHR New Investigator's Award
Scholar investigates disparities and inequities in maternity experiences within Indigenous communities
Read More
2017 Vanier Scholar explores daily life in the aftermath of national tragedy
Michele Bianchi is one of UCalgary's 11 Vanier Canada Graduate Scholars
Read more
Passion for anthropology fuels student's interest in global conversation on incl
Ultra-marathoner Ian MacNairn is first UCalgary student to earn one of 30 spots at exclusive international conference
Read more
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary