Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/archaeology-phd

Archaeology
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Students in the Archaeology program experience a hands-on approach combining rigorous classroom and laboratory training with field work around the world. Opportunities for field experience have ranged from Western Canada to the circumpolar North, as well as Asia, Africa, Latin America, and the Caribbean. The program is offered through the Department of Anthropology and Archaeology, which embraces an integrative approach under the guidance of distinguished faculty members. Research areas include cultural heritage management, development of complexity, ethnoarchaeology, human-environment interaction, landscape, paleobotany, bioarchaeology, and social identity.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
Theoretical Foundations and Topics in Archaeological Theory and Method or Theory and its Application in Biological Anthropology.
Professional Skills Course:
Professional Skills for Anthropologists or its equivalent.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Additional Courses:
Students may study hunter-gatherer adaptations, origins of agriculture, development of complex societies or other topics.
Candidacy:
Students will complete a research proposal and both oral and written candidacy exams.
Field Work:
Two seasons of field work, or an approved program of laboratory work for one of the field work seasons.
Specializations
Biological Anthropology (Interdisciplinary)
Outcomes
Museum Curator, Cultural Resource Management, Heritage Regulator, academic positions.
A PhD in archaeology is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Two core courses and two electives
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years full time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Andrea Freeman
Accepting Inquiries
Geoarcheology, Pedagogy in Geography and archaeology
Diane Lyons
Accepting Inquiries
Ethnoarchaeology
Julio Mercader Florin
Accepting Inquiries
Environmental Archaeology, Geoarchaeology, Bioarchaeology, Chemical and Materials Science approaches to the Past
Elizabeth Paris
Accepting Inquiries
Mesoamerican archaeology, Maya culture, Urbanism, Lithic analysis, Zooarchaeology, Archaeometallurgy, Compositional analysis, Economic archaeology
Kathryn Reese-Taylor
Accepting Inquiries
Maya archaeology, Mesoamerican anthropology, Remote sensing in archaeology, Landscape archaeology, Urbanism, Ceramic analysis
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A master’s degree or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
A specimen of relevant written work.
Documents
A concise statement setting forth the reasons for wishing to pursue graduate work in this department
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: December 15 application deadline
International students: December 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Anthropology and Archaeology
Earth Sciences 620
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Archaeology
Thesis-based MA
Geography
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MGIS
PhD
History
Thesis-based MA
Course-based MA
PhD
Physics and Astronomy
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Sociology
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary