Link: https://www.ucalgary.ca/future-students/undergraduate/explore-programs/architecture

Architecture
Master of Architecture (MArch)
Learn how to apply for admission
Why choose Architecture?
Outstanding teachers, study-abroad options, innovative courses with practicing architects and leading-edge workshop facilities are just a few of the benefits you'll receive as one of our architecture students.
Our approach engages the contemporary challenges facing the discipline of architecture, with experts in critical practice, digital design and fabrication, building performance, cultural theory and architectural history. With the completion of our Architectural Studies Minor as part of your undergraduate degree, you will gain a year’s worth of course work toward our accredited three-year Master of Architect degree and be on the path toward becoming a registered architect. Undergraduate study is required - you cannot enter the MArch program directly from high school. The most up-to-date admission requirements can be found at
sapl.ucalgary.ca
.
Requirements
Requirements for this program can be found at:
https://sapl.ucalgary.ca/
You can also see the School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape's
Bachelor Design in City Innovation.
We are committed to research and teaching that prepares architects for the future through responsive architecture, generative design, digital fabrication and integrated techniques - to be critical thinkers who engage with emerging forms of design practice in an increasingly interconnected design environment.
Jason S. Johnson, MArch
Associate Professor, Digital Design
Use the Undergraduate Student Cost Estimator to calculate your expenses as a first-year student.
Undergraduate Student Cost Estimator
See the best of UCalgary
Check out our student experience page to find out more about what life is like on campus or consider visiting campus for a tour led by one of our current students.
Learn about the student experience
More ways to get in touch
Ready to find out what campus is really like? Book a tour, join us at an event, or sign up for more information.
Join us for a future student event
Check our calendar to find out when we'll be in your area, or register for one of our upcoming online events.
Check events
Sign up for more information
Sign up for more information about UCalgary, receive important details and reminders, and find out when UCalgary is visiting your area.
Get more information
See the campus
Guided by a current student, you'll explore our classrooms, residences, athletic facilities, and more.
Book a tour
Contact us and get help
Need assistance? Learn how to get ahold of us and find answers to your questions.
Contact and help
Ready to take the next step?
Learn how to apply for admission
School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape
Professional Faculties Building, Room 2182
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, Alberta T2N 1N4
403.220.6601
Visit the SAPL website