Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/architecture-march-course

Architecture
Master of Architecture (MArch)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
This three-year accredited professional degree takes a broad approach to design and sustainability. Our students and alumni become leaders in the field as a result of the program's innovative curriculum, organized around the design studio, and delivered by an energetic and dedicated group of faculty members, sessional instructors and professional guests. The program is supplemented by a very generous scholarship program for the students and offers a comprehensive set of enrichment opportunities, including Block Week courses, the Design Matters Lecture Series, and study abroad programs (Barcelona, Tokyo, and Zurich).
Completing this program
Foundation Year:
Required for applicants without a design-related four year undergraduate degree.
Core Courses:
Design studio each term; other topics including building science, structures, lighting, theories and more.
Block Week Course:
Students will complete a block week course in the week preceding their first term
Additional Courses:
Urban Design Theory, Urban Systems, and other electives.
Outcomes
Architect, urban designer, furniture or product designer, historian, academic, theatre/set designer, video game designer, heritage architect, real estate developer, project/construction manager, civil servant.
The course-based Master of Architecture degree is the professional program required for becoming a licensed Architect in jurisdictions across Canada, the United States, and the European Union. Students can also continue their academic studies by pursuing the Master of Environmental Design (MEDes) degree.
Course-based program
Nine foundation year courses; thirteen core and seven elective courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full-time (in addition to foundation year); six years maximum
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of study (a minimum of 20 courses or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
Four-year undergraduate degree, ideally with experience in design, the humanities, social sciences, arts, engineering, biological and/or physical sciences – including, wherever possible, studio, laboratory and collaborative learning experiences.
Documents
Applicants are required to submit a
digital application package
consisting of 1) a digital portfolio, 2) a resume/CV, and 3) an architectural image paragraph. These documents should be submitted as a single .PDF document with a cover letter (include your full name) and a table of contents for clarity. The package should be uploaded to the Student Centre following submission of an online application. Additional descriptions, specifications, and details about the digital portfolio, resume, and architectural image paragraph can be found on the School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape website at:
https://sapl.ucalgary.ca/future-students/admissions/march
.
Foundation Year
Applicants must demonstrate successful completion of one or more years of undergraduate-level coursework in four areas: Design, Technology, Graphics, and History/Theory (equivalent to the courses taken in the minor in Architectural Studies, or in the MArch Foundation year). To complete these prerequisite requirements, applicants may be admitted to the MArch Foundation or qualifying year. An assessment of these prerequisite requirements will be made by an admissions committee and applicants will be informed in offers of admission which, if any, courses at the Foundation level will be required.
Reference letters
Three
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 7.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 135* (with no sub-score below 125*). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jan. 15 application deadline
International students: Jan. 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape
Professional Faculties Building, PF 2182
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
403.220.6601
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the program website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Civil Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Computational Media Design
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Environmental Design
Thesis-based MEDes
PhD
Landscape Architecture
Course-based MLA
Planning
Course-based MPlan
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary