Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/art-mfa

Art
Master of Fine Arts (MFA)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Master of Fine Arts program invites creative artists to join us to pursue six semesters of challenging, exciting and productive study in art-making and research creation. Students have the opportunity to work with a range of media or focus on a specific medium (such as Sculpture, Print Media, Photography, Painting, Drawing or Digital Art), and are given studio space and full access to the resources of the Department. Students learn from award-winning faculty members who are actively engaged in contemporary art, art history and curatorial studies. Many of our distinguished graduates have gone on to win prizes, exhibit nationally and internationally, start their own business enterprises, and work in the arts and creative industries, amongst other endeavors.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
Courses explore studio practice, research creation, and studies in history and art theory.
Thesis Exhibition:
Students’ programs culminate in the thesis exhibition, accompanied by a support paper. Students are required to defend the thesis in an oral examination.
Specializations
Sculpture
Printmaking
Photography
Painting
Drawing
Media Art and Technology
Future Opportunities
MFA graduates are innovators, and their creative thinking and technical skills qualify them for a wide range of exciting opportunities. You may work as a professional artist and/or be engaged with art and arts-related fields including teaching, arts administration, curation, critical writing and research, and entrepreneurial enterprises, to name just a few.
The MFA is a terminal degree. It can prepare you to pursue a PhD in allied fields of study.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to produce a thesis exhibition and successfully defend their work in an oral examination.
Courses
Eight courses in the Department of Art and Art History at the 600 level.
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Susan Cahill
Accepting Inquiries
Jennifer Eiserman
Seeking Students
Cultural Diversity in Art Education, Digital Art, Giftedness and Art Education, Visual Midrash
Denis Gadbois
Accepting Inquiries
Photography, Design,
Gerald Hushlak
Accepting Inquiries
Digital Art, Painting
Heather Leier
Accepting Inquiries
Jim Parker
Accepting Inquiries
Game Design, Generative Art, Machine Perception, Virtual Theatre
Dona Schwartz
Accepting Inquiries
Research Creation with a focus in photography
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
A portfolio of 20 images of recent work submitted as a single PDF. Up to five minutes of video documentation may be submitted as links within this document. Please ensure the images are in jpeg format/300dpi/no larger than 1080 pixels in any dimension, and include their title, dimensions, medium and year. Add links to the video(s) (via YouTube, Vimeo, personal website,etc) along with one reference image, with title, length and year.
Documents
A three-to-five page statement of intent
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
minimum of 70 on writing sections, 60 on other sections.
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in writing courses.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 125* (with no sub-score below 105*). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jan. 15 application deadline
International students: Jan. 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Art and Art History
Art Building, Room 612
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
403. 220.6136
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Computational Media Design
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary