Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/biochemistry-and-molecular-biology-phd

Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Ambitious students looking to broaden their horizons through a wide range of cutting-edge research should consider the Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (PhD Thesis) degree. The research-based program ranges from biochemistry and molecular research to cellular and developmental biology, as well as genetics, immunology and bioinformatics. It also includes applications to cancer and clinical research. Following a previous degree, the program may take up to six years of full-time study. Students will enjoy practicing science in a setting that combines the amenities of a large city with the outdoor leisure activities of the nearby Rocky Mountains.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics may include analysis of eukaryotic genomes, control of gene expression, cytogenetics, metabolic genetics and more.
Research Ethics:
Students are required to attend Research Integrity Day sessions in the first year of their program.
Sex & Gender Module:
Students are required to complete one of the CIHR sex and gender online training modules found at discoversexandgender.ca in the first year of their program.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Seminars:
Student participate in a journal club and work-in-progress seminars for their research group, and will present one seminar per year.
Candidacy:
Students will complete both oral and written candidacy exams.
Specializations
Bioinformatics
Outcomes
Academic research; post-secondary and secondary teaching; industry research and consulting; business consulting, analytics, management, sales, research and marketing; scientific writing; IP and patent law; medicine (lab tech; physician; clinical scientist); veterinary medicine.
A PhD in biochemistry and molecular biology is usually considered a final degree; some graduates go on to post-doctoral research.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Three core courses and one to two electives
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, and must agree to oversee the student's research before admission will be granted
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Foothills Campus from anywhere. Experience all that the Cumming School of Medicine has to offer for interested prospective graduate students. Explore this state of the art campus from wherever you are. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Foothills Campus Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Pierre Billon
Seeking Students
Genetics, Molecular Biology, Biochemistry and Cell Biology
Janice Braun
Accepting Inquiries
Molecular Chaperones and Neurodegeneration
George Chaconas
Unavailable
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology of Lyme Disease
Sarah Childs
Seeking Students
Genetics of blood vessel development; precision medicine; developmental biology, Vascular patterning, Vascular stabilization, The zebrafish model
A.P. Jason de Koning
Seeking Students
Computational biology, bioinformatics, and genomics, Systematic variant interpretation in human genetic disease, Bayesian statistics, large-scale inference, and machine learning, Human and computational population genetics, Molecular evolution
Ina Dobrinski
Unavailable
Biology of male germ line stem cells
Antoine Dufour
Unavailable
Proteomics, proteases, systems biology, inflammation, immunity
Sabine Gilch
Seeking Students
Prion diseases, cell biology of prion infection, chronic wasting disease, prion strains
Steven Greenway
Unavailable
Cell-free DNA, Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells, Microbiome
Carol Huang
Unavailable
Diabetes, Pancreatic beta cell growth and development
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Page
3
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
An MSc degree or equivalent. from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
A current C.V.
Reference letters
Three
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 6.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 75, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 145* (with no sub-score below 125*). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
For admission on May 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Mar. 1 application deadline
International students: Dec. 1 application deadline
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: June 1 application deadline
International students: Apr. 1 application deadline
For admission on January 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Oct. 1 application deadline
International students: Aug. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology
Health Sciences Centre
HSC G345C, 3330 Hospital Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Cumming School of Medicine
Health Sciences Centre
Foothills Campus, University of Calgary
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
Visit the Cumming School of Medicine website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
Thesis-based MSc
Biological Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Biomedical Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Cardiovascular and Respiratory Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Chemistry
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Community Health Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Computer Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Immunology
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Kinesiology
Course-based MKin
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Microbiology and Infectious Disease
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Neuroscience
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Veterinary Medicine
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Highlights of the Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Program
These stories from those involved in the program show what it's like to be involved yourself.
Carla Davidson, Owner - Endeavour Scientific Management and Consulting
"I learned a combination of critical thinking, clear communication and broad experience. My graduate degree gave me the willingness to start my own business."
Kevin Thorneloe, Director - Biopharm Translational Medicine
"The critical thinking skills I acquired during my PhD has been the foundation of my career in the pharmaceutical industry."
Nima Najand, Technology Analyst - Innovate Calgary
"UCalgary has been instrumental in providing me with skills to succeed in careers outside academia."
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary