Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/biological-sciences-phd

Biological Sciences
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Graduate study in Biological Sciences puts students on the front lines of discovery. Doctoral students design, conduct and analyze original research; they develop rigorous expertise in everything from foundational theory and the study of evolution to cutting-edge research methodologies as they investigate a broad range of biological problems ranging from the molecular level to the biosphere. Degrees are offered in four integrated areas: biochemistry; ecology and evolutionary biology; integrative cell biology; and microbiology. The program takes four to five years, with funding available through sources such as scholarships, teaching assistantships, research assistantships, and supervisor's research grants.
Completing this program
Research Seminar:
Related to supervisor interest, and may include biochemistry, cell biology, ecology and evolutionary biology or microbiology.
Candidacy:
Students will prepare a research proposal or essay, followed by an oral exam in their field of research expertise.
Additional Courses:
Topics may cover biology of laboratory animals, theory and lab methods, statistical methods, recent advances and Darwin.
Thesis:
Students will propose, write and successfully defend a research thesis.
Specializations
Biochemistry
Biophysical Chemistry
Cell Biology
Developmental Biology
Ecology
Environmental Biology
Evolutionary Biology
Molecular Microbiology
Physiology
Structural Biology
Host-Pathogen Interactions
Energy and Environmental Systems
Outcomes
Professor, biologist, teacher, consultant, scientist (agricultural/forestry breeding, process development, environmental), data analyst, biotechnologist, genetic counsellor, manager (lab, project, clinic, territory, resource), science writer, research technician, bioscience/biotechnology business.
A PhD in biological sciences is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Minimum of two courses, with additional seminar courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, and must agree to oversee the student's research before admission will be granted
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Biological Sciences
Arshad Ayyaz
Accepting Inquiries
Single Cell Genomics, Tissue Regeneration, Cancer, Molecular Biology
Robert Barclay
Unavailable
Behavioural and physiological ecology, conservation biology
Benjamin Barst
Accepting Inquiries
Ecotoxicology, One Health, Environmental contaminants, Stable isotope analyses, Food webs
John EA Bertram
Accepting Inquiries
Dynamics of locomotion
Tamara Bodnar
Seeking Students
Microbiome , Inflammation and neurodegeneration, Prenatal alcohol exposure/Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder (FASD), Germ-free models, Indigenous community partnerships (health focus)
Gordon Chua
Accepting Inquiries
Eukaryotic Gene Expression and Regulation
Antoine Dufour
Unavailable
Proteomics, proteases, systems biology, inflammation, immunity
Peter Dunfield
Accepting Inquiries
Microbial Ecology / Environmental Microbiology, Biotechnology
Peter Facchini
Accepting Inquiries
Plant Metabolic Biochemistry
Constance Finney
Accepting Inquiries
Infectious Disease Immunology
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Page
3
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.2 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
Completion of a Master of Science program recognized by the Faculty of Graduate Studies. Exceptional students may apply to a PhD program without a Master of Science recognized by the Faculty of Graduate Studies.
Work samples
None
Documents
A concise statement outlining the applicant's research interests and reasons for wishing to attend the University of Calgary
Reference letters
Three academic reference letters along with the required reference form.
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 6.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 75, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 145* (with no sub-score below 125*).
Deadlines
For admission on September 1
Canadian and permanent resident (students with Canadian or U.S. transcripts)- apply by June 1
International (students with international transcripts)- apply by May 1
For admission on January 1
Canadian and permanent resident (students with Canadian or U.S. transcripts)- apply by Oct. 1
International (students with international transcripts)- apply by Sept. 1
For admission on May 1
Canadian and permanent resident (students with Canadian or U.S. transcripts)- apply by March 1
International (students with international transcripts)- apply by Jan. 1
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Have you made your final decision and you’re ready to apply?
Learn how to apply
Learn more about this program
Department of Biological Sciences
Biological Sciences Building 186
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403-220-6623
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Science
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Science website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Biological Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
Anthropology
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based PhD
Archaeology
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Immunology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Microbiology and Infectious Disease
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Veterinary Medicine
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary