Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/biomedical-technology-mbt-course

Biomedical Technology
Master of Biomedical Technology (MBT)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Through course and laboratory instruction plus a paid three-month Summer Practicum, students in the 12 month Master of Biomedical Technology program will be able to bridge from the academic to the corporate world. Students are exposed to a broad range of biotechnology and business concepts, along with cutting-edge technology. With mentorship and instruction from entrepreneurs, faculty, alumni and industry leaders, students acquire a tool kit of the technical and soft skills, knowledge and experience needed to directly enter a variety of career paths, including the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, along with biomedical, financial, regulatory or governmental careers. The MBT can be completed in combination with the course-based Master of Business Administration.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics include biotechnology business aspects, integrated systems, clinical trials and biomanufacturing, bioinformatics and more.
Sex & Gender Module:
Students are required to complete one of the CIHR sex and gender online training modules found at discoversexandgender.ca in the first year of their program.
Research Ethics:
Students are required to attend Research Integrity Day sessions during their time in the program.
Outcomes
Biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, start-ups, medical devices, clinical trials, regulatory affairs, sales and marketing, research and development, patent rights, licensing, project management, corporate leadership.
A course-based master’s degree in biomedical technology is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
15 courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
One year full-time
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Foothills Campus from anywhere. Experience all that the Cumming School of Medicine has to offer for interested prospective graduate students. Explore this state of the art campus from wherever you are. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Foothills Campus Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A BSc in Biological Science or equivalent.
Suggested Preparatory Courses:
Genetics (Biology 311 or equivalent)
Cellular and Molecular Biology (Biology 331 or equivalent)
Biochemistry or macro molecules (Biochemistry 393 or equivalent)
Senior-level course work in at least two of the following subject areas: microbiology, immunology, pharmacology and/or physiology
Work samples
None
Documents
A current C.V.
A Vision Statement (no more than one page) outlining career goals and how the MBT program will help achieve them
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 6.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 75, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 145* (with no sub-score below 125*). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: May 1 application deadline
International students: May 1 application deadline
PLEASE NOTE: Review and evaluation of applications will only take place following the application deadline.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Biomedical Technology Program
Graduate Science Education (Foothills Campus)
GSC G345C, 3330 Hospital Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 4N1
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit their website
Cumming School of Medicine
Health Sciences Centre
Foothills Campus, University of Calgary
Calgary, AB T2N 4N1
Visit the Cumming School of Medicine's website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Pathologists' Assistant
Course-based MDPA
Highlights of the Biomedical Technology program
These stories from those involved in the program show what it's like to be involved yourself.
UCalgary graduate a biotech innovator
Fabrizio Chiacchia was recognized as an Avenue Magazine Top 40 Under 40 for his work in reducing hospital-acquired infections
Read More
Biomedical Technology grad leads two companies
Chad Walton established ATK Technologies and Akamai Diagnostics after finishing at UCalgary
Read more
A future international leader in global health
Lisa Allen Scott, a Vanier scholar and MBT grad, is investigating public health interventions in sanitation and hygiene
Read more
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary