Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/bridge-teaching-certificate

Bridge to Teaching
Certificate (Cert)
Course-based program
Note: This program is not currently accepting applications
Program overview
The Bridge to Teaching program provides a route for passionate and experienced foreign-trained teachers to gain the training required to transfer their skills and begin working in Alberta's schools. The program offers intensive and accelerated learning in education: participants learn to teach the Alberta Program of Studies in ways that engage students, and gain insights into assessing student progress in fair, formative and summative ways. The program also explores how expectations of teachers vary between Alberta and other jurisdictions and countries. Offered full time over one year, the program includes two school-based practicums.
Completing this program
Courses:
Special Topics in Education courses are designed to prepare foreign-prepared teachers to meet Alberta certification requirements.
Practicum:
Students will participate in a field work practicum.
Outcomes
Alberta Teacher certification, K-12 Teacher.
Course-based program
Six courses with 10 weeks of practicum
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Eight months full-time; max completion time of two years.
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
One official transcript from all post-secondary institutions attended
A letter from an evaluator at Alberta Education’s Professional Standards Branch
For further information, go to
alberta.ca/teaching-in-alberta.aspx
.
Statement of intent
A written 300-word statement of intent that includes answers to the following questions:
Please identify your reasons for applying to the Bridge to Teaching program.
In what way is this program related to your desired career path or employment objectives?
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
Additional requirements
A successful interview with the Program Co-ordinator for Bridge to Teaching is required.
Applicants must also complete a Police Information Check (PIC). More information, here:
werklund.ucalgary.ca/gpe/bridge-teaching
.
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0.
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (no less than 70 in each section).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Deadlines
Applications not currently being accepted
Learn more about this program
Educational Research
Education Tower, Room 114
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5675
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Werklund School of Education
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Werklund School of Education's website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary