Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/built-and-landscape-heritage-certificate

Built and Landscape Heritage
Certificate (Cert)
Course-based program
Program overview
PLEASE NOTE: APPLICATIONS ARE NOT CURRENTLY BEING ACCEPTED FOR THIS PROGRAM.
Heritage conservation is widely recognized as an important strategy for identifying and protecting built and landscape heritage resources. Conservation of heritage buildings and historic places represents the past history and culture of a nation, provides a sense of identity and continuity in a fast changing world for future generations and is a vital element of sustainable community development.
To advance professional practice in this domain, the School of Arhitecture, Planning and Landscape is launching a new certificate that explores the links between heritage conservation theory and practice through the lens of research, policy analysis and design intervention at different scales, from a single site to a broad landscape complex.
The certificate will enhance the practice of heritage professionals, consultants and policy makers. Curriculum content explores the links between heritage conservation theory and practice through the lens of research, policy analysis and design intervention at different scales, from a single site to a broad landscape complex.
This project is supported by the Government of Alberta through the Alberta Historical Resources Foundation.
Completing this program
Principles of Historic Conservation:
Students learn principles and theories related to heritage conservation of historic places. They explore the definition of significance and integrity in buildings and districts and strategies to interpret and preserve cultural landscapes.
Sustainability and Historic Preservation:
Students explore the role of historic preservation in the context of pragmatic, social, economic and environmental imperatives of sustainable community development. Topics include sustainable cultural practices, building envelope assessment, pathology and retrofit of heritage buildings, adaptive reuse of historic sites and more.
Heritage Conservation Policy and Planning:
This practice-based course provides an overview of the aspects of heritage conservation related to planning within a community development context, including issues of heritage design, materials conservation, value-based management, and real estate aspects related to heritage projects.
Advanced Heritage Conservation Project:
Students complete an interdisciplinary project related to heritage conservation using the framework of the
Historic Places Initiative
to document buildings, districts and cultural landscapes and to interpret their historical and architectural significance. They develop a heritage conservation proposal based on site and context analysis of a historic place in Alberta.
Outcomes
The Built and Landscape Heritage certificate is intended for early and mid-career practitioners in architecture, landscape architecture, planning, engineering and other related disciplines who want to acquire specialized knowledge and skills related to heritage conservation.  It will be of particular interest to students wishing to acquire heritage conservation knowledge and skills in a Canadian context, with a view to the best practice in the field, regionally, nationally and internationally.
A course-based certificate in Built and Landscape Heritage is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
Four five-day block courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Normally completed in one calendar year; three years maximum
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
PLEASE NOTE: APPLICATIONS ARE NOT CURRENTLY BEING ACCEPTED FOR THIS PROGRAM.
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
One example of previous academic or professional work submitted in digital form (portable document .PDF files), to be submitted with the online application.
Documents
Transcripts
A C.V.
A statement of interest (1,000 word max.) outlining the applicant’s reasons for pursuing the Certificate in Heritage Conservation, and how the applicant’s specific educational background and professional experience relates to heritage conservation.
Reference letters
Three
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 7.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 145* (with no sub-score below 125*). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
For admission on May 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Sept. 1 application deadline
International students: Sept. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Learn more about this program
School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape
School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape (SAPL)
Professional Faculties Building, Room 2182
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.6601
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Anthropology
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Archaeology
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based PhD
Architecture
Course-based MArch
Designing Smart and Secure Communities
Course-based Cert
Environmental Design
Thesis-based MEDes
PhD
Geography
Course-based MGIS
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based MA
PhD
History
Thesis-based MA
Course-based MA
PhD
Landscape Architecture
Course-based MLA (Certificate)
Planning
Course-based MPlan
Political Science
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Public Policy
Course-based MPP
Sustainable Energy Development
Course-based MSc
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary