Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/cardiovascular-and-respiratory-sciences-msc-thesis

Cardiovascular and Respiratory Sciences
Master of Science (MSc)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The graduate program in Cardiovascular and Respiratory Sciences engages students in advanced research through the Cardiovascular Group, the Smooth Muscle Research Group and the Airways Inflammation Research Group. Students' individual research programs are supported by multidisciplinary, laboratory environments that encourage collaboration and exposure to new techniques and model systems.
Students gain a foundation in molecular biology, organ and vascular systems, cardiovascular and respiratory physiology and pharmacology. The program is supported by state-of-the-art facilities and direct contact with patient-oriented research. Students typically advance to careers in health care-focused professions, as well as research opportunities in academia and industry.
Completing this program
Courses:
The amount of required course work is determined by the student's supervisory committee.
Research Ethics:
Students are required to attend Research Integrity Day sessions in the first year of their program. Additional Research Ethics requirements may apply, depending on the type of research being done.
Sex & Gender Module:
Students are required to complete one of the CIHR sex and gender online training modules found at discoversexandgender.ca in the first year of their program.
Seminars:
Student participate in a journal club and work-in-progress seminars for their research group, and will present one seminar per year.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Outcomes
Researchers at academic institutions, education, medicine, government agencies, health organizations, private sector/industry, biotechnology start-up companies, clinical trials coordinators, research-oriented positions in pharmaceutical/biotech companies and Fortune 500 businesses.
A master’s degree in cardiovascular and respiratory sciences will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Two courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, and must agree to oversee the student's research before admission will be granted
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Foothills Campus from anywhere. Experience all that the Cumming School of Medicine has to offer for interested prospective graduate students. Explore this state of the art campus from wherever you are. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Foothills Campus Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Ejaife Agbani
Accepting Inquiries
Platelet Biology, Thrombosis and Haemostasis., Procoagulant Membrane Dynamics (PMD) Analysis and Translation, Medical Device Innovation
Todd Anderson
Accepting Inquiries
Atherosclerosis, lipids, endothelial function
Andrew Braun
Accepting Inquiries
Vascular Physiology and Ion Channel Function
Nowell Fine
Accepting Inquiries
Heart failure, cardiac amyloidosis, cardiac imaging
Steven Greenway
Unavailable
Cell-free DNA, Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells, Microbiome
Justin MacDonald
Accepting Inquiries
Vascular smooth muscle biology, Chronic inflammation, Chemoproteomic drug discovery
Robert Newton
Seeking Students
Inflammation - Anti-inflammatory glucocorticoids
Vaibhav Patel
Accepting Inquiries
Intercellular communication in cardiovascular disease
Aaron Phillips
Accepting Inquiries
Research Area, Collaborations, Tools, Trainees
Dr. Marc J. Poulin
Accepting Inquiries
human physiology, healthy brain aging and dementia, sleep, intermittent hypoxia & high altitude, industrial physiology
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
Official transcripts are required.
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 6.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 75, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 145* (with no sub-score below 125*). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
For admission on May 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Mar. 1 application deadline
International students: Dec. 1 application deadline
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: June 1 application deadline
International students: Apr. 1 application deadline
For admission on January 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Oct. 1 application deadline
International students: Aug. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Cardiovascular and Respiratory Sciences
Graduate Science Education
HSC 341C, 3330 Hospital Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 4N1
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit their website
Cumming School of Medicine
Health Sciences Centre
Foothills Campus, University of Calgary
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Cumming School of Medicine website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Cardiovascular and Respiratory Sciences
PhD
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Kinesiology
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MKin
PhD
Microbiology and Infectious Disease
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary