Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/chemical-and-petroleum-engineering-phd

Chemical and Petroleum Engineering
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Ambitious students looking to make their mark should consider a Chemical and Petroleum Engineering degree. Under the research-based program, students are expected to grow their skills as they produce a significant original contribution to fundamental engineering knowledge. This degree is generally a requirement for a career in academia or government/industrial research. A PhD can also be a first step toward a chief scientific officer (CSO) position.
Completing this program
Courses (excluding Petroleum Engineering):
Topics may include mass transfer, chemical reactor design, heat transfer, fluid mechanics and more.
Professional Development Courses:
Students take two professional development courses on communication styles, presentation skills and more.
Candidacy:
Students will complete both oral and written candidacy exams.
Petroleum Engineering:
Core courses include Reservoir Simulation, Secondary and Tertiary Recovering, Thermal Recovery Methods and more.
Doctoral Courses:
Students complete Experimental Design and Error Analysis and Advanced Mathematical Methods in Engineering prior to candidacy.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Specializations
Chemical Engineering
Petroleum Engineering
Biomedical Engineering
Engineering, Energy and Environment (Interdisciplinary)
Environmental Engineering (Interdisciplinary)
Energy and Environmental Systems (Interdisciplinary)
Outcomes
Oil and gas, medicine, education, government sector, research and consulting. Process engineer, petroleum reservoir engineer, petroleum production engineer, environmental engineer, software development, documentation for chemical process/petroleum reservoir simulation software, sales.
A PhD in chemical and petroleum engineering is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Three to six courses, depending on specialization
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four year full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, and must agree to oversee the student's research before admission will be granted
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Roberto Aguilera
Unavailable
Tight Oil and Unconventional Gas, Naturally Fractured Reservoirs
Jalel Azaiez
Accepting Inquiries
Flow Instabilities in Porous Media, Nano-Particle Systems, Micro-Fluidics, Numerical and Mathematical Modelling
Anne Benneker
Accepting Inquiries
Enhanced transport, Microfluidics
Matthew Clarke
Accepting Inquiries
Gas Hydrates, Biodiesel, High pressure phase equilibria
Hector De la Hoz Siegler
Accepting Inquiries
Josephine Hill
Accepting Inquiries
Catalysis
Ayodeji Jeje
Accepting Inquiries
Michael Kallos
Accepting Inquiries
Stem Cell Bioprocess Engineering, Suspension Bioreactor Shear Hydrodynamics, Biomaterials Development, Biomedical Engineering
Md Kibria
Seeking Students
Heterogeneous Catalysis, CO2 conversion, Renewable H2, Artificial Photosynthesis, Reactor Design, Techno-economic Analysis, Nanomaterials
Brij Maini
Unavailable
Improved Heavy Oil and Bitumen Recovery Processes
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.5 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the graduate degree.
Minimum education
An MSc degree or equivalent, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
Two official copies of your final official transcripts and degree certificates (if degree is not clearly stated on transcripts) in signed sealed envelopes from institution attended.  These documents may be sent to us directly from the institution or you can have the documents mailed to yourself and then mail them to us.  We do not considered open official transcripts as official.
Statement of Interest (not mandatory)
C.V. (not mandatory)
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: July 15 application deadline
International students: Mar. 15 application deadline
For admission on January 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Nov. 15 application deadline
International students: July 15 application deadline
For admission on May 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Mar. 15 application deadline
International students: Nov. 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Chemical and Petroleum Engineering
ENB 202, 2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403-220-4801
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Schulich School of Engineering
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Schulich School of Engineering website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Chemical and Petroleum Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Petroleum only)
Course-based MSc
Biomedical Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Chemistry
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Geoscience
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Sustainable Energy Development
Course-based MSc
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary