Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/chemical-and-petroleum-engineering-meng-course

Chemical and Petroleum Engineering
Master of Engineering (MEng)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The MEng in Chemical and Petroleum Engineering gives you a competitive advantage, whether you are focusing your career in a specific area or expanding your opportunities across sectors. This program is often completed in one to two years of full-time study, and part-time options are available. This program is course-based, designed to expand your knowledge through a mix of advanced chemical and petroleum engineering courses. In addition to helping you expand your career in the energy and petrochemicals sectors, this program also gives you upward mobility in pharmaceuticals, food products, metals, fertilizers, synthetic materials and beyond.
MEng Internship
This program offers an 8-to-16 month full-time paid internship with companies across Canada to help students gain engineering work experience in a diverse economy. Limited spots are available.
Learn more about this exciting internship opportunity by visiting the
MEng Internship Page.
Completing this program
Ten courses are required to complete this degree. Students have the flexibility to select topics based on their interests.
Specializations
Chemical Engineering
Petroleum Engineering
Engineering, Energy and Environment (Interdisciplinary)
Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the professional MEng program in chemical and petroleum engineering, graduates will have a balance of the fundamental knowledge and practical skills required to work in a wide variety of industries in Canada, and worldwide. This includes, but isn’t limited to, work in process engineering, petroleum reservoirs, petroleum production, environmental engineering, software development and/or documentation for chemical process/petroleum reservoir simulation software, chemical sales, and more.
A course-based master’s degree in chemical and petroleum engineering is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
10 courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
1-2 years full-time; 6 years maximum; part-time available
Supervisor
No supervisor is required.
Fees and funding
MEng degrees are self-funded.
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree in chemical engineering or equivalent is required for the Chemical Engineering specialization.
A four-year baccalaureate degree in engineering is required for the Petroleum Engineering specialization.
A four-year baccalaureate degree in chemical engineering, petroleum engineering, oil and gas engineering, mechanical engineering, energy engineering, polymer and material engineering or civil engineering is required for the Energy & Environment specialization.
Consideration may also be given for BSc degrees in other fields.
Work samples
N/A
Documents
One official copy of your final official transcript and degree certificates (if degree is not clearly stated on transcripts) in a signed, sealed envelopes from the institution attended.
Unofficial transcripts can be uploaded to the online application for initial evaluation purposes. Admission offers, however, are conditional upon receipt of official transcripts.
These documents may be sent to us directly from the institution or they can be mailed to you and you can mail them to us yourself.
We do not consider open official transcripts as official.
Reference letters
None
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
We encourage you to apply early as this program receives a high volume of applications and reaches capacity quickly. We send offers to qualified applicants on a rolling basis.
For admission on September 1:
March 1: Deadline for International applicants
May 1: Deadline for Domestic applicants
To accommodate extended study permit processing times for students from Iran, we will be accepting applications from Iranian applicants for the Fall intake until
December 1
. This deadline is intended to allow sufficient time for review and study permit application.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Chemical and Petroleum Engineering - MEng Office
Schulich School of Engineering
ENC 205, Canadian Natural Resources Limited Engineering Complex
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.2001
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Schulich School of Engineering
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Schulich School of Engineering's website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Chemical and Petroleum Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Petroleum only)
Course-based MSc
PhD
Biomedical Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Chemistry
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Geoscience
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Sustainable Energy Development
Course-based MSc
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary