Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/chemical-and-petroleum-engineering-meng-cohort

Chemical and Petroleum Engineering
Master of Engineering - Cohort (MEng)
Course-based program
Program overview
PLEASE NOTE: This program is not currently accepting applications
The MEng in Chemical and Petroleum Engineering gives you a competitive leg-up whether you are focusing your career in a specific area or expanding your opportunities across sectors. As a student in this high-impact, condensed cohort program, you will complete your degree in eight months over the Fall and Winter term of one academic year. This program is course-based, designed to expand your knowledge of chemical and petroleum engineering beyond the undergraduate level. In addition to preparing you for advanced positions in the energy and petrochemicals sectors, you could also tailor your program to expand your career in pharmaceuticals, food products, metals, fertilizers, synthetic materials and beyond. The professional development courses that are integral to this program will ready you for management positions as well. Part-time options are not available through this expedited program, but are available through our
regular MEng in chemical and petroleum engineering program
.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
Four core engineering courses include Engineering Tools, Sustainability, Innovation and Entrepreneurship, and Project Management.
Petroleum Engineering specialization:
Six courses in Petroleum Engineering with topics such as Applied Reservoir Engineering, Subsurface Production Operations, Reservoir Analysis and Description, Enhanced Oil Recovery, Natural Gas Engineering, Economic Analysis of Petroleum Systems and Drilling Engineering.
Specializations
Petroleum Engineering
Outcomes
Petroleum engineers take part in exploring for and developing oil and gas resources. They apply the principles of geology, physics, chemistry, and engineering sciences to recovering petroleum and natural gas from conventional and unconventional reservoirs and oil sands. In today’s increasingly digital environment, petroleum engineers also work in software development for chemical process/petroleum reservoir simulation, data collection and analysis.
Also known as: Design Engineer, Drilling Engineer, Oil and Gas Engineer, Petrophysical Engineer, Production Engineer, Reservoir Engineer, Up-Stream Processing Engineer, Process Engineer, Petroleum Reservoir Engineer, Petroleum Production Engineer
A course-based master's degree in chemical and petroleum engineering is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
10 courses, consisting of four core engineering courses and six petroleum engineering courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Graduate Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Eight months, full-time: Two consecutive terms, from September to April.
Please note: This program includes a regularly scheduled break from May through August (This does not apply to the specialization in Petroleum Engineering).
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
MEng degrees are self-funded.
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree in chemical and/or petroleum engineering, or closely related degree from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
One official copy of your final official transcript (and degree certificate if degree is not clearly stated on transcript) in a signed, sealed envelopes from the institution attended.
Unofficial transcripts can be uploaded to the online application for initial evaluation purposes. Admission offers, however, are conditional upon receipt of official transcripts.
These documents may be sent to us directly from the institution or you can have the documents mailed to yourself and then mail them to us.
We do not consider open official transcripts as official.
Reference letters
None
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
We encourage you to apply early as this program receives a high volume of applications and reaches capacity quickly. We send offers to qualified applicants on a rolling basis.
For admission on September 1:
March 1: Deadline for International applicants
May 1: Deadline for Domestic applicants
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Learn more about this program
Chemical and Petroleum Engineering - MEng Office
Schulich School of Engineering
ENC 205, Canadian Natural Resources Limited Engineering Complex
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.2001
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Schulich School of Engineering
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
Visit the Schulich School of Engineering's website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Chemical and Petroleum Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Course-based MEng
Course-based MSc
PhD
Biomedical Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Chemistry
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Geoscience
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Sustainable Energy Development
Course-based MSc
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary