Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/chemistry-phd

Chemistry
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Take the next step toward becoming a leader in a field that occupies a uniquely central place in science. Develop new approaches to everything from sustainable energy to treatment of disease in our innovative doctoral program. Our award-winning department includes 40 faculty members and 100-plus graduate students focused on advancing knowledge and finding solutions to problems in areas such as cleaner energy, health, and chemistry for the quantum-nano world. As you design and conduct your own original research, you will benefit from the support of state-of-the-art laboratories and tools, while your imagination will be fed by the department’s extensive research presentations and talks featuring world-class experts in the field of chemistry.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
Students participate in two research seminars focusing on studies of the literature or current research.
Candidacy:
Students will complete both oral and written candidacy exams.
Additional Courses:
May include electrochemical fundamentals, organometallic, organic, or inorganic chemistry, toxicology, or other topics.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Outcomes
Director of Research, Educator, Government Regulatory Scientist, Industrial Process Chemist, Medical Researcher, Research Scientist, Scientific Advocate (Business, Law, Government Policy), Team/Project Leader.
A PhD in chemistry is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
One to four courses, depending on academic background
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
Co-Supervision is required; supervisors must agree to oversee the student prior to application
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Tom Back
Seeking Students
Organic & Medicinal Chemistry; Design and Synthesis of Bioactive Molecules
Darren Derksen
Accepting Inquiries
Organic synthesis and methodology applied to natural product development
Belinda Heyne
Accepting Inquiries
Photochemistry & Nanotechnology
Farideh Jalilehvand
Accepting Inquiries
Heavy Metal Complex Formation with Amino Acids
Pierre Kennepohl
Seeking Students
Electronic Structure and Properties of Molecules and Materials
Susana Kimura-Hara
Accepting Inquiries
Drinking Water Treatment and Water Reuse
Peter Kusalik
Accepting Inquiries
Justin MacCallum
Accepting Inquiries
Biophysical Chemistry, Integrative Structural Biology, Biomolecular Recognition and Design
Gabriel Ménard
Seeking Students
Inorganic Electrochemistry for Clean Energy Applications
Hans Osthoff
Accepting Inquiries
Analytical and Atmospheric Chemistry
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system.
Minimum education
MSc required. A four-year honours bachelor degree with a minimum 3.70 GPA will also be considered.
Work samples
None
Documents
None
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (70 in some sections – up to the program, 60 in all other).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in one or two courses (up to the program), “B+” on all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents- apply by July 1
International students - apply by March 1
For admission on January 1:
Canadians and permanent residents- apply by Nov. 1
International students - apply by July 1
For admission on May 1:
Canadians and permanent residents- apply by March 1
International students - apply by Nov. 1
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Chemistry
Science A 229
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.6252
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Science
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Science's website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Chemistry
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Biological Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Chemical and Petroleum Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Petroleum only)
Course-based MSc
PhD
Computer Science
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Geoscience
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Physics and Astronomy
Course-based MSc
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Highlights of the Anthropology program
These stories from those involved in the program show what it's like to be involved yourself.
Engineering a Better Battery
Potential applications for new, solid-state lithium battery technology include electric vehicles, consumer electronics, and grids for storing renewable energy
Read More
Chemistry Professor Wins Alberta Science Award
Warren Piers was recognized for outstanding leadership for work in organometallic chemistry.
Read more
Three Minute Thesis
Practice your communication skills, build your network and learn about amazing UCalgary research
Read more
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary