Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/civil-engineering-meng-course

Civil Engineering
Master of Engineering (MEng)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Our MEng in civil engineering offers exciting opportunities to grow your technical knowledge and provide you with a competitive advantage in pursuing a civil engineering career. Our revised program gives students the flexibility of enhancing their skills in focused areas that help address the civil engineering challenges of today and tomorrow. This program is designed to be completed in two years of full-time study, although part-time options are available. Our MEng program requires the completion of 10 courses that have been specifically developed to align with one of two focus areas or the project management specialization. Completion of a MEng graduate degree in civil engineering will give you an advantage in pursuing a career in various civil engineering sectors, such as engineering consultancy, project management and construction, sustainability and technology, government and policy makers, NGOs, resource industries and public utilities, railroads, manufacturing and more.
MEng Internship
This program offers an 8-to-16 month full-time paid internship with companies across Canada to help students gain engineering work experience in a diverse economy. Limited spots are available.
Learn more about this exciting internship opportunity by visiting the
MEng Internship Page.
Completing this program
Two options are available within our MEng program, each of which require completion of 10 courses:
1. MEng in Civil Engineering
6 core courses are required
3 thematic courses are required
1 option course is required
2. MEng in Civil Engineering Project Management Specialization
4 core courses are required
6 project management courses are required
Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the MEng in Civil Engineering graduates will have a balance of the fundamental knowledge and practical skills required to work in civil engineering in Canada, and worldwide. Eighty-three per cent of Alberta’s civil engineers work in professional, scientific or technical services, public works or construction.
A course-based master’s degree in civil engineering is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
10 courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
2 years full-time; 6 years maximum; part-time available.
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
The MEng degree is self-funded by the student.
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree in civil engineering or environmental engineering is required for Civil Engineering – no specialization.
A four year baccalaureate degree in engineering is required for Civil Engineering – Project Management specialization.
Consideration may also be given for BSc degrees in other fields.
Work samples
None
Documents
One official copy of your final transcript (and degree certificate if degree is not clearly stated on transcript) in signed, sealed envelope from institution attended.
Unofficial transcripts can be uploaded to the online application for initial evaluation purposes. Admission offers, however, are conditional upon receipt of official transcripts.
Official transcripts can be mailed to us directly from the institution, or they can be mailed to you directly and you can send them to us yourself
We will not accept unsealed official transcripts as official
References
None
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
We encourage you to apply early as this program receives a high volume of applications and reaches capacity quickly. We send offers to qualified applicants on a rolling basis.
For admission on September 1:
March 1: Deadline for International applicants
May 1: Deadline for Domestic applicants
To accommodate extended study permit processing times for students from Iran, we will be accepting applications from Iranian applicants for the Fall intake until
December 1
. This deadline is intended to allow sufficient time for review and study permit application.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Civil Engineering - MEng Program Office
Schulich School of Engineering
ENC 205, Canadian Natural Resources Limited Engineering Complex
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.2001
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Schulich School of Engineering
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
Visit Schulich School of Engineering's website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Civil Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Biomedical Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Biomedical Technology
Course-based MBT
Chemical and Petroleum Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Petroleum only)
Course-based MSc
PhD
Environmental Design
Thesis-based MEDes
PhD
Geography
Course-based MGIS
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Geomatics Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Kinesiology
Course-based MKin
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Law
Thesis-based LLM
Course-based LLM
Math and Statistics
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Microbiology and Infectious Disease
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Military, Security and Strategic Studies
Thesis-based MSS
Course-based MSS
PhD
Physics and Astronomy
Course-based MSc
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Sustainable Energy Development
Course-based MSc
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary