Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/civil-engineering-msc-thesis

Civil Engineering
Master of Science (MSc)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Having your pick of a wide range of exciting fields of study is what makes the Civil Engineering (MSc Thesis) program attractive to students. They can specialize in one of several sub-disciplines, including Biomechanics, Bituminous Materials, Geotechnical Engineering, Materials Engineering, Structures and Solid Mechanics, Transportation Engineering, Water Resources, Energy and Environment (Interdisciplinary), and Environmental Engineering (Interdisciplinary). After completing an in-depth, original research project related to their chosen sub-discipline, students get to write a corresponding thesis, allowing them to gain in-depth knowledge and research experience.
Completing this program
Courses
: Topics may include bituminous materials, theory of transport demand modelling, biological processes for wastewater treatment and more.
Thesis
: Students will be required to submit and defend an original thesis.
Professional Development Seminars:
Students take two professional development seminars on communication styles, presentation skills and more.
Specializations
Avalanche Mechanics (not available)
Biomechanics
Bituminous Materials
Geotechnical Engineering
Materials Engineering
Structures & Solid Mechanics
Transportation Engineering
Water Resources
Environmental Engineering (Interdisciplinary)
Engineering, Energy and Environment (Interdisciplinary)
Project Management
Outcomes
Civil Engineer in corporate or government sectors, consulting industry, Management, or scientist.
A master’s degree in civil engineering will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Four courses minimum; Eight courses maximum
Two professional development seminars
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full-time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Mamdouh El-Badry
Seeking Students
Development of Innovative Structural Systems for Bridges and Other Structures, Structural Health Monitoring of Bridges and Other Structures, Application of Advanced Composite Materials in Bridges and Other Structures, Design and Analysis for Serviceability and Sustainability of Concrete Structures, Computational Modelling of Reinforced and Prestressed Concrete Structures., Dynamic and Seismic Performance of Bridges., Computer-aided Analysis and Design of Structures., Temperature Effects on Concrete Structures.
Jeffrey Priest
Accepting Inquiries
Geomechanics of gas hydrates
Janaka Ruwanpura
Unavailable
Sylvia Sleep
Seeking Students
Life cycle assessment of new technologies; Sustainable infrastructure
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year BEng or BSc degree in Science, Medicine, Kinesiology, or other Engineering from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
C.V. or Resume
Research Proposal
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
Safety Training
Students may be required to complete safety training in order to access labs.
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents - apply by March 1 | submit all supporting documents by March 30
International students - apply by March 1 | submit all supporting documents by March 30
For admission on January 1:
Canadians and permanent residents- apply by July 1 | submit all supporting documents by July 30
International students - apply by March 1; apply by July 1 | submit all supporting documents by July 30
For admission on May 1:
Canadians and permanent residents- apply by Nov. 1 | submit all supporting documents by Nov. 1
International students - apply by Nov. 1 | submit all supporting documents by Nov. 30
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Civil Engineering
Schulich School of Engineering
ENE 231, 2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.4816
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Schulich School of Engineering
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Schulich School of Engineering's website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Civil Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Biomedical Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Biomedical Technology
Course-based MBT
Chemical and Petroleum Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Petroleum only)
Course-based MSc
PhD
Environmental Design
Thesis-based MEDes
PhD
Geography
Course-based MGIS
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Geomatics Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Kinesiology
Course-based MKin
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Law
Thesis-based LLM
Course-based LLM
Math and Statistics
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Microbiology and Infectious Disease
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Military, Security and Strategic Studies
Thesis-based MSS
Course-based MSS
PhD
Physics and Astronomy
Course-based MSc
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Sustainable Energy Development
Course-based MSc
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary