Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/clinical-psychology-phd

Clinical Psychology
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Helping students become expert psychologists and competent clinicians is the purpose of the Clinical Psychology (PhD Thesis) program. It aims to prepare students for research, academic and clinical careers in psychology and health care. As practitioners of an evidence-based science, faculty members guiding the program emphasize training in clinical science. The program, which highlights their commitment to empirical approaches to advancing knowledge, is accredited by the Canadian Psychological Association.
Completing this program
Courses:
Students will take advanced topics in the practice of clinical psychology such as psychopharmacology, diversity issues in clinical psychology, clinical geropsychology, addictions, health psychology, eating disorders, consultation/supervision, program evaluation, and neuropsychology.
Candidacy:
Students must sit a written and oral doctoral candidacy examination in the third year of their program.
Research Proposal:
Students in the program must complete a doctoral thesis proposal for thesis research.
Thesis
: Students will complete a thesis based on a research project/question during their time in the program.
Outcomes
Research, academic, or clinical career in university, health, and mental health settings.
A PhD in clinical psychology is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
9 courses, practica, and a full-time, competitive, paid internship. Internships may take place in settings across Canada.
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four to five years; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
A full list of supervisors accepting new students is posted on the Department of Psychology website in early Fall. Contact the program for more information.
Kathryn Birnie
Seeking Students
Pain; Pediatric Pain; Child Health; Patient-Oriented Research; Implementation Science; Knowledge Mobilization
Brandy Callahan
Accepting Inquiries
Geriatric neuropsychology, Adult ADHD
Tavis Campbell
Seeking Students
Behavioral Medicine, Adherence, Health Behaviors, Chronic Disease, Motivation
Linda Carlson
Accepting Inquiries
Psychosocial Oncology
Keith Dobson
Unavailable
Depression, Stigma, Workplace mental health, Adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) and their effects on adults
Deinera Exner-Cortens
Unavailable
Teen Dating Violence, Healthy Relationships Promotion, Suicide Prevention, School Mental Health, Program Evaluation, Implementation Science
Gerald Giesbrecht
Seeking Students
Developmental Psychobiology
Susan Graham
Unavailable
Child Development, Language and Cognition
David Hodgins
Unavailable
Addictive Behaviours
Julia Kam
Unavailable
Main Research Interests, Methodological Approaches, Current Projects
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.6 GPA on a 4.0 point system.
Please note that the PhD program is highly competitive. Successful applicants will typically have a GPA higher than this stated minimum.
Minimum education
A master's degree in Psychology or equivalent.
Work samples
None
Documents
A statement of research and professional interests (max. 500 words), including the specification of prospective research supervisors from among current program faculty.
A research proposal.
Reference letters
Two academic letters
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 6.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 75, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Nov. 15 application deadline
International students: Nov. 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Psychology
Psychology Graduate Program
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Advisor
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Clinical Psychology
Thesis-based MSc
Community Health Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Counselling Psychology
Course-based MC
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Social Work
Course-based Cert
Thesis-based MSW
Course-based MSW
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary