Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/communication-and-media-studies-ma-thesis

Communication and Media Studies
Master of Arts (MA)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
This graduate program offered by the Department of Communication, Media and Film invites students to pursue their academic interests in the critical study of communication and media. We offer a dynamic environment, a community of students from around the world, and a faculty dedicated to fostering a setting where students can reach their full academic potential.
We also offer interdisciplinary scholarship and rigorous theoretical and methodological grounding, and encourage students to develop unique programs of study that reach beyond the boundaries of traditional academic subjects.
Our approach is primarily qualitative, producing research with a tangible impact for diverse communities.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
Topics include interdisciplinary approaches to communication and media studies, communication theory and research methods.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Additional Courses:
Topics may include critical media studies, communication infrastructure, environmental communication issues, media and politics and more.
Outcomes
Academic careers; private sector: communication/media/film related companies, companies dependent on digital media, wifi services; public sector: non-profit organizations, government positions dependent on digital communication.
A master’s degree in communication and media studies will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Three core courses and three electives
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full-time; three years part-time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Julia Chan
Accepting Inquiries
Surveillance and Culture, Digital Media, Media, Race, and Gender, Visual Culture, Horror Film, Research Creation
Charlene Elliott
Accepting Inquiries
Food Marketing, Policy and Childrens Health, Communication and Health, Sensorial communication, Intellectual property, Taste and taste culture, Media literacy
Mél Hogan
Accepting Inquiries
Jessalynn Keller
Accepting Inquiries
Girls media, digital cultures, contemporary feminisms, popular culture, celebrity
Annie Rudd
Accepting Inquiries
Tamara Shepherd
Accepting Inquiries
feminist political economy of digital culture, internet policy, social media & platform studies, research methods
Tania S. Smith
Accepting Inquiries
Rhetoric, Rhetoric of health and medicine, Public online professional communication
Paul Stortz
Accepting Inquiries
History of Education, Higher Education, and Media; History of Ethnicity, Race, Immigration, Refugees, and Multiculturalism; History of Intellectual Culture; Cultural Theory and Theories of History; Interdisciplinary Studies and Theory; Images in Historical Cultures
Gregory Taylor
Accepting Inquiries
Communication Policy, Technology and Society, Canadian Media, Media and Democracy
Charles Tepperman
Accepting Inquiries
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A completed four year baccalaureate degree in Communications Studies, Culture Studies or related field.
Work samples
Two samples of written work.
Documents
A statement of research intent (250-500 words)
A detailed curriculum vitae
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Dec. 1 application deadline
International students: Dec. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Communication, Media and Film
Social Sciences Building, Room 320
618 Campus Place NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Communication and Media Studies
Thesis-based PhD
English
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based PhD
Political Science
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Sociology
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary