Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/community-health-sciences-msc-thesis

Community Health Sciences
Master of Science (MSc)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Community Health Sciences students develop a core set of skills to recognize, explore and solve problems at the intersection between population, public health and education. This program is one of the most diverse medicine programs offered by the University of Calgary; faculty and students address big-picture issues in health care, from biostatistics, disease and population health to social and economic factors in community health, disability issues, delivery of health services and more. The program is ideal for students inspired to do research with wide-ranging impact, and who are ready to gain the specialized knowledge and skills required to tackle the intricate details of the complex issues affecting community health.
Completing this program
Courses
: Courses are determined according to the specialization and background of the student.
Research Ethics:
Students are required to attend Research Integrity Day sessions in the first year of their program.
Sex & Gender Module:
Students are required to complete one of the CIHR sex and gender online training modules found at discoversexandgender.ca in the first year of their program.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Seminars:
Students attend Community Health Sciences and O'Brien Institute for Public Health seminars during the academic year.
Research proposal:
Students must submit research proposals for approval by their supervisory committee.
Specializations
Biostatistics
Community Rehabilitation and Disability Studies
Epidemiology
Health Services Research
Medical Education
Population/Public Health
Health Economics
Outcomes
Analyst; researcher; academic; rehabilitation/case/respite worker; consultant; recreation therapist; family outreach/advocacy; resource teacher; clinical trials biostatistician; epidemiologist; statistician; psychometrician; knowledge translation/prevention/development/health promotion specialist.
A master’s degree in community health sciences will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Two or more, depending on specialization and background
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two to three years full-time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, and must agree to oversee the student's research before admission will be granted
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Foothills Campus from anywhere. Experience all that the Cumming School of Medicine has to offer for interested prospective graduate students. Explore this state of the art campus from wherever you are. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Foothills Campus Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Fariba Aghajafari
Accepting Inquiries
vulnerable population, primary care
Martina Ann Kelly
Unavailable
Medical Education
Camila Aquino
Accepting Inquiries
Neuromodulation in Movement Disorders, Clinical Trials in Parkinson's Disease, Patient-Oriented Research
Philip Barber
Seeking Students
Stroke, Dementia, Cognition, MRI, CT, biomarkers
Herman Barkema
Accepting Inquiries
Cheryl Barnabe
Unavailable
Rheumatoid Arthritis Epidemiology and Health Services Research, Indigenous Health
Reed Beall
Unavailable
Population Health, Pharmaceutical Policy, Health Policy, Equitable health innovation and access
Dr. Tanya Beran
Accepting Inquiries
Child and adult health and education
Emma Billington
Unavailable
Osteoporosis & Metabolic Bone Disease, Nutrition, Culinary Medicine
Kathryn Birnie
Seeking Students
Pain; Pediatric Pain; Child Health; Patient-Oriented Research; Implementation Science; Knowledge Mobilization
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Page
3
…
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
A letter from a faculty member indicating interest in supervising the student
A statement outlining the applicant's interests and reasons for choosing the program
Reference letters
Two
Note:  When choosing your references, it is preferred that you choose individuals who are external to your supervisor.
Test scores
None
Work/Research Experience
Work and/or research experience related to your specialization of choice is highly recommended.
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 6.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 75, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 145* (with no sub-score below 125*). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Dec. 1 application deadline
International students: Dec. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Community Health Sciences
Health Science Centre, Room HSC G341B
3330 Hospital Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 4N1
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Cumming School of Medicine
Health Sciences Centre
Foothills Campus, University of Calgary
Calgary, ABT2N 4N1
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Community Health Sciences
Thesis-based PhD
Anthropology
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based PhD
Communication and Media Studies
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based PhD
Kinesiology
Course-based MKin
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Math and Statistics
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Nursing
Course-based Cert
Course-based Diploma
Course-based MN
Course-based MN/NP
Thesis-based MN
PhD
Psychology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Social Work
Course-based Cert
Thesis-based MSW
Course-based MSW
PhD
Sociology
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Veterinary Medicine
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary