Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/community-health-sciences-phd

Community Health Sciences
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Students in Community Health Sciences pursue solutions to complex problems in a wide range of big-picture health issues. This is one of the most diverse medicine programs offered by the University of Calgary, representing individual, family and population health in variety of healthcare, education and community settings. Students gain a strong foundation in core competencies in research and professional practice, with applied learning gained through interactions in clinical settings. Specializations touch on wide-ranging issues in community and population health and disease, health services, disabilities and more, preparing students for careers that require a deep understanding of - and the skills to act on - the many factors and relationships that affect community health.
Completing this program
Courses:
Courses are determined according to the specialization and background of the student.
Research Ethics:
Students are required to attend Research Integrity Day sessions in the first year of their program.
Sex & Gender Module:
Students are required to complete one of the CIHR sex and gender online training modules found at discoversexandgender.ca in the first year of their program.
Candidacy:
Students will complete both oral and written candidacy exams.
Seminars:
Students attend Community Health Sciences and O'Brien Institute for Public Health seminars during the academic year.
Research proposal:
Students must submit a research proposal for approval by their supervisory committee.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Specializations
Biostatistics
Community Rehabilitation and Disability Studies
Epidemiology
Health Economics
Health Services Research
Medical Education
Population/Public Health
Outcomes
Analyst; researcher; academic; rehabilitation/case/respite worker; consultant; recreation therapist; family outreach/advocacy; resource teacher; clinical trials biostatistician; epidemiologist; statistician; psychometrician; knowledge translation/prevention/development/health promotion specialist.
A PhD in community health sciences is usually considered a final degree; graduates may go on to pursue post-doctoral research.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Two or more, depending on specialization and background
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four to five years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, and must agree to oversee the student's research before admission will be granted
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Foothills Campus from anywhere. Experience all that the Cumming School of Medicine has to offer for interested prospective graduate students. Explore this state of the art campus from wherever you are. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Foothills Campus Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Camila Aquino
Unavailable
Neuromodulation in Movement Disorders, Clinical Trials in Parkinson's Disease, Patient-Oriented Research
Herman Barkema
Accepting Inquiries
Cheryl Barnabe
Unavailable
Rheumatoid Arthritis Epidemiology and Health Services Research, Indigenous Health
Reed Beall
Unavailable
Population Health, Pharmaceutical Policy, Health Policy, Equitable health innovation and access
Dr. Tanya Beran
Accepting Inquiries
Child and adult health and education
Kathryn Birnie
Seeking Students
Pain; Pediatric Pain; Child Health; Patient-Oriented Research; Implementation Science; Knowledge Mobilization
Allison Brown
Unavailable
Medical Education: Social justice and accountability; competency-based medical education, Physician Assistant (PA) education
Sonia Butalia
Unavailable
Tools and Strategies to Improve Diabetes, Cholesterol, and other Cardiovascular Risk Factors, Transition of Youth with Diabetes from Pediatric to Adult Care
David J.T. Campbell
Unavailable
Areas of Research
Gillian Currie
Accepting Inquiries
Health Economics
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Page
3
…
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
An MSc or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
A letter from a faculty member indicating interest in supervising the student
A statement outlining the applicant's interests and reasons for choosing the program
Reference letters
Two
Note:  When choosing your references, it is preferred that you choose individuals who are external to your supervisor.
Test scores
None
Work/Research Experience
Work and/or research experience related to your specialization of choice is highly recommended.
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 6.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 75, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 145* (with no sub-score below 125*). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Dec. 1 application deadline
International students: Dec. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Community Health Sciences
Health Science Centre, Room HSC G341B
3330 Hospital Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 4N1
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Cumming School of Medicine
Health Sciences Centre
Foothills Campus, University of Calgary
Calgary, ABT2N 4N1
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Community Health Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Anthropology
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based PhD
Communication and Media Studies
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based PhD
Kinesiology
Course-based MKin
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Math and Statistics
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Nursing
Course-based Cert
Course-based Diploma
Course-based MN
Course-based MN/NP
Thesis-based MN
PhD
Psychology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Social Work
Course-based Cert
Thesis-based MSW
Course-based MSW
PhD
Sociology
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Veterinary Medicine
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Highlights of the Community Health Sciences Program
These stories from those involved in the program show what it's like to be involved yourself.
Pets, people and urban places
Melanie Rock's research recognizes intricate connections between the health of humans, animals and ecosystems
Read More
Understanding the public health impact of fluoridation
Lindsay McLaren has found that removing fluoride from drinking water has worsened tooth decay among Calgary children
Read more
MEDi robot comforting young patients
Dr. Tanya Beran, founder of Rxrobots, is studying children's interactions with robots in hospital settings
Read more
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary