Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/computer-science-phd

Computer Science
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Cutting-edge companies such as Google and Apple have sought out graduates of the Computer Science program, which aims to give students the skills they need for careers ranging from private industry to academic positions at advanced research centres and universities. It helps students build skills and novel ideas for designing and implementing software, as well as find new ways to use computers, develop effective algorithms to solve computing problems, and plan and manage organizational technology infrastructure. As a program that usually takes about four years for an MSc graduate to complete, the degree requires course work, a single-authored scientific paper, and an oral candidacy exam, as well as submission and successful defense of a thesis.
Completing this program
Core Course:
Research Methodology in Computer Science.
Seminar:
Students will conduct a department seminar presentation based on their research.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Additional Courses
: May include Artificial Intelligence, Databases, Computer Graphics, Scientific Computing, HCI and Visualization and others.
Candidacy:
Students will complete a research proposal, scientific paper and oral candidacy exams.
Specializations
Wearable Technology (see Interdisciplinary Specializations)
Outcomes
Technology sector, business start-ups, computer science research, academia, IT, software development.
A PhD in computer science is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Nine courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years full-time
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Usman Alim
Accepting Inquiries
Visualization and Computer Graphics
John Aycock
Accepting Inquiries
Systems
Mario Costa Sousa
Accepting Inquiries
Interactive Computer Graphics and Visualization
Philip Fong
Seeking Students
Dr. Marina Gavrilova
Unavailable
Biometric Technologies Lab Director
Majid Ghaderi
Accepting Inquiries
Computer Networks
Helen Ai He
Unavailable
Social Computing, Inclusive Design
Peter Høyer
Accepting Inquiries
Quantum algorithmics
Christian Jacob
Accepting Inquiries
Data Science with Virtual and Augmented Reality, Simulations of Biological Systems using Game Engines, LINDSAY Virtual Human
Michael Jacobson, Jr.
Accepting Inquiries
Computational number theory
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Page
3
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree. Post-degree CS courses may be considered when calculating GPA.
Exceptions to GPA requirement may be considered for those with either:
demonstrated research excellence, or
GRE General scores of at least 600 verbal and 750 quantitative and either 720 analytical (old test format) or 5.5 (new test format)
Minimum education
A thesis-based MSc., or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
None
Reference letters
Two reference letters from within the 12-month period prior to application.
Test scores
Optional: Special consideration will be given to those with GRE scores of at least 600 verbal, 750 quantitative, and 720 analytical (5.5 in the new format). Applicants from outside Canada are expected to apply with GRE scores.
Additional Requirements
Students are required to have completed 3rd or 4th year undergraduate courses in each of the following areas:
Theory of Computation
Software Engineering
Systems (Operating Systems, Compilers)
Application (Artificial Intelligence, Graphics, Databases, etc.)
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (70 in some sections – up to the program, 60 in all other).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in one or two courses (up to the program), “B+” on all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements
Deadlines
For admission on January 1
INTERNATIONAL
:
Final Application Deadline –
July 1
(Final Documentation Submission Deadline –
July 15
)
CANADIAN
:
Final Application Deadline –
September 1
(Final Documentation Submission Deadline –
October 1
)
For admission on September 1
INTERNATIONAL
:
Early Applications (complete application review) -
January 15
Final Application Deadline –
March 1
(Final Documentation Submission Deadline –
March 15
)
CANADIAN
:
Final Application Deadline –
May 1
(Final Documentation Submission Deadline –
June 1
)
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Computer Science
602 ICT Building
856 Campus Place NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.3528
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Science
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Science's website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Computer Science
Thesis-based MSc
Computational Media Design
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based PhD
Electrical and Software Engineering
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Software)
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary