Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/computer-science-msc-thesis

Computer Science
Master of Science (MSc)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
​The Computer Science program provides the bedrock for exciting careers at the forefront of innovation in private industry or entrepreneurship. It helps students build skills and novel ideas for designing and implementing software, as well as developing effective algorithms to solve computing problems and plan and manage organizational technology infrastructures. Cutting-edge companies such as Google, Apple, Amazon, Facebook, Autodesk, and Microsoft frequently hire graduates. Alumni are also actively engaged in entrepreneurship, innovation, and creating start-ups.
Completing this program
Core Course:
Research Methodology in Computer Science.
Seminar:
Students are required to give a departmental seminar on the results of their research.
Software Engineering Specialization:
Four additional courses from a list approved by the Department of Computer Science.
Additional Courses:
May include Artificial Intelligence, Databases, Computer Graphics, Scientific Computing, HCI and Visualization and others.
Thesis:
Students will complete a thesis based on original research.
Specializations
Master of Science (MSc) Thesis-based in Computer Science, Software Engineering Specialization
. The specialization is offered jointly through the Department of Computer Science and the Department of Electrical and Software Engineering.
Wearable Technology Interdisciplinary Specialization
Computational Neuroscience Interdisciplinary Specialization
Outcomes
Technology sector, business start-ups, computer science research, IT, software development.
A master’s degree in computer science will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
One core course and four electives
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full-time
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Usman Alim
Accepting Inquiries
Visualization and Computer Graphics
John Aycock
Accepting Inquiries
Systems
Mario Costa Sousa
Accepting Inquiries
Interactive Computer Graphics and Visualization
Philip Fong
Seeking Students
Dr. Marina Gavrilova
Unavailable
Biometric Technologies Lab Director
Majid Ghaderi
Accepting Inquiries
Computer Networks
Helen Ai He
Unavailable
Social Computing, Inclusive Design
Peter Høyer
Accepting Inquiries
Quantum algorithmics
Christian Jacob
Accepting Inquiries
Data Science with Virtual and Augmented Reality, Simulations of Biological Systems using Game Engines, LINDSAY Virtual Human
Michael Jacobson, Jr.
Accepting Inquiries
Computational number theory
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Page
3
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree. Post-degree CS courses may be considered when calculating GPA. Exceptions to GPA requirement may be considered for those with either:
demonstrated research excellence, or
GRE General scores of at least 600 verbal and 750 quantitative and either 720 analytical (old test format) or 5.5 (new test format)
Minimum education
Four year degree in computer science or another field with 3rd or 4th year courses in the following areas: Theory of Computation; Software Engineering; Systems (OS, Compilers, Distributed Systems, Networking); Application (AI, Graphics, Databases, etc.).
Work samples
None
Documents
None
Reference letters
Two letters of reference dated within twelve months of the application.
Test scores
Optional: Special consideration will be given to those with GRE scores of at least 600 verbal, 750 quantitative, and 720 analytical (5.5 in the new format). Applicants from outside Canada are expected to apply with GRE scores.
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (70 in some sections – up to the program, 60 in all other).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in one or two courses (up to the program), “B+” on all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements
Deadlines
WINTER (For admission on January 1)
INTERNATIONAL
:
Final Application Deadline –
July 1
(Final Documentation Submission Deadline –
July 15
)
CANADIAN
:
Final Application Deadline –
September 1
(Final Documentation Submission Deadline –
October 1
)
--------------
FALL (For admission on September 1)
INTERNATIONAL
:
Early Applications (complete application review) -
January 15
Final Application Deadline –
March 1
(Final Documentation Submission Deadline –
March 15
)
CANADIAN
:
Final Application Deadline –
May 1
(Final Documentation Submission Deadline –
June 1
)
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Computer Science
602 ICT Building
856 Campus Place NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.3528
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Science
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Science's website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Computer Science
Thesis-based PhD
Computational Media Design
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Electrical and Software Engineering
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Software)
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary